## Joint Committee on Artificial Intelligence 20 January 2026 The Use of AI in the Public Sector

## Opening Statement

Good morning Chair, Deputies and Senators. We welcome the opportunity to meet today and to brief the committee as part of your examination of the use of Artificial Intelligence in the Public Sector.

If I might, I would like to begin with a few brief words about the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, a global organisation with offices in Ireland and in over 100 locations around the world.

The Department works to protect and promote peace on our island; support our diaspora communities;  ensure  active  and  principled  membership  of  the  UN,  the  EU  and  other international fora; deliver a high-quality international development programme; and expand Ireland's presence and influence abroad so as to underpin prosperity and security at home.

The Department also provides a first class service to Irish citizens. The Passport Service, a key service delivered by the Department, provides passports to some one million Irish citizens at home and overseas each year.  The Service is at the forefront of the government's programme for the delivery of on-line services to citizens.

As the Committee is aware, the rapid acceleration of AI, and in particular advancements in generative AI, opens new opportunities but also brings unprecedented challenges. Ireland's National AI Strategy AI: Here for Good - takes a human-centric approach to governance, emphasising fairness, transparency, and the building of public trust in AI.   These principles are  at  the  core  of  our  Department's  approach  to  AI,  both  domestically  and  in  our  global engagement.

The  Department's  Statement  of  Strategy  2025  -  2028  outlines  our  ambition  to  build  our capacity to innovate, as a Department that consistently delivers excellent public service, and is agile and responsive to national and global developments. Part  of  delivering  on  this  ambition  to  build  our  capacity  in  emerging  technologies,  and  in particular  AI,  can  be  seen  in  the  competition  currently  underway  to  recruit,  at  Assistant Secretary-level, a Chief Information Officer for the Department.  This will be a new role on our Management Board, responsible for leading digital transformation across the Department, including the Passport Service and our global network of diplomatic missions. AI offers many new possibilities for public service transformation. As with all Government Departments,  we  are  working to  avail  of  the  possibilities  whilst  mitigating  the  risks.    The Department is already active in exploring the potential of AI to enhance our work. In  2023, the Department developed an interim policy on Generative AI for all staff of the Department.  This  policy,  designed  from  a  cyber-security  perspective,  outlines  that  public versions  of  Generative  AI  services  must  not  be  used  for  business  purposes.  This  was  to mitigate the risk of official or sensitive data being submitted to external sources beyond the Department's control. As the Committee is aware, the Guidelines on the Responsible Use of AI in the Public Service were published in May 2025 and provide us a comprehensive framework for AI adoption. The Department's  approach  is  now  rooted  in  this  framework,  balancing  AI  innovation  with responsible governance, emphasising human oversight and public trust as central considerations in AI adoption. In line with these Guidelines, and the Department's goal to promote and champion a culture

of innovation and transformation, work is underway to update the 2023 policy to reflect the continuing advancements and developments happening within the Department and wider afield. The updated policy will provide a refreshed framework for the appropriate use of AI technologies so as to identify the right use cases for AI, and enhance the quality of our public services,  our  efficiency  and  our  productivity,  and  in  so  doing  uphold  ethical  standards, fundamental rights, legal compliance and public trust. Members will be familiar that the EU AI Act classifies AI systems based on risk, setting specific principles for high-risk AI applications while imposing bans on unacceptable-risk AI practices. The Department is integrating this risk-based approach, to ensure safety, respect for human rights, data privacy, and accountability, and to enhance public trust. The Department is committed to appropriate ongoing oversight of AI deployment. We are currently reviewing the structures necessary within the Department to review high-impact AI projects, and ensure adherence to our risk-based approach. There is no currently no deployment of AI technology within the online services that the Department provides to the public. As a Department, the safeguarding of people's health, safety, and fundamental rights is front and centre of our service provision. Data protection and quality are key considerations in the deployment of AI, with the Department committed to protecting personal and business data in line with robust cybersecurity and ethical data handling practices. In order to examine the technical feasibility of establishing an in-house Large Language Model service and chatbot, research has been undertaken by the Department's ICT Unit since 2024. This research operates in a sandbox environment on the Department's own business data. This data is not personal and is held on-premises under the terms of the Department's ICT Security  Policy,  which  is  itself  based  on  National  Cyber  Security  Centre  guidelines.  This research is in the low-risk category. The sample use cases of this research are all solely in the area of knowledge management using AI tools to improve our own personal productivity and the Department's operational efficiency.  None of the use cases involve direct delivery of public services. One use case is now implemented as part of the design and development of the Passport Service's  new  processing  system.  A  digital  assistant  which  is  based  on  generative  AI  and named 'Ask Finn' was introduced during 2025 for internal use by officials in the Passport Service. This digital assistant was developed internally and is based on-premises, meaning it is low-risk, extremely secure, does not leverage commercial or cloud-based systems, and does not have any capability to access or retrieve any personal information.  The system will allow officers to ask questions related to the processing of passports, which 'Finn' will answer by pulling  from  the  Passport  Service's  policies  and  procedural  documents.  The  Department intends to develop other appropriate AI use cases following a period of robust testing.

It  is  already clear that the current wave of technological innovation and advancement will have  a  profound  impact  on  ways  of  working.  While  the  opportunities  offered  by  AI  to potentially improve our public services are significant, we are highly aware that so too are the risks. The Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade intends to harness these opportunities while mitigating the risks, innovating and improving our service delivery to the benefit of citizens,  while  at  the  same  time  protecting  our  infrastructure;  building  public  trust;  and safeguarding fundamental rights.

I thank the Committee for their time and my colleagues and I welcome your questions.