# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- I think this matters because all other correspondence concerning this document should be addressed to the EU-Council of Europe Youth Partnership (youth-partnership@partnership-eu.coe.int).
- Parents and teachers need to know that in Germany , responsibility for the education system is divided between the State Bund and the Federal States Bundesländer , with administration of the education system being almost exclusively a matter for the Federal States. At the time when the study was conducted, seven out of the sixteen federal states in Germany had developed guidelines for the use of GenAI in schools or education. Other Federal States had.
- I would support this when how do you think GenAI will affect equality, diversity and inclusion in education over the next years? (e.g. do you think it could help more people to succeed in education and training, or could it disadvantage certain learners)?
- I would support this when artificial intelligence (AI) is a technology that simulates human intelligence in machines, enabling them to perform tasks that typically require human intelligence. It encompasses various subfields, including machine learning, natural language processing, computer vision, and robotics (Irfan, Fahad and Alqahtani, ; Lu et al., ). AI has different kinds, such as narrow AI general AI and AI Super Intelligence (Irfan.
- Parents and teachers need to know that - -Understanding the specificities of GenAI and what makes it different from other forms of AI and digital technologies in general. - -Understanding how GenAI works from a technical point of view and being able to critically evaluate outputs of GenAI tools. - -Identifying opportunities for teaching and learning enhancement (e.g., personalised timely feedback, realistic simulations). - -Developing a critical.
- Students should understand that not all YAP members agreed that schools should be adapting to use AI in education. Different ways to strike the balance were mentioned, like:
- This seems useful if the teachers confidently spoke about the advantages and disadvantages of specific AI tools they had used in the classroom. Due to the nature of the AIT pathway, participants frequently discussed both Duolingo and Photomath. (See Appendix for a more detailed overview of teachers' interview feedback on Duolingo and Photomath and the other AI tools they mentioned.)
- For me, the important point is that the public perception of AI is a topic of interest and has been studied in various contexts. Several studies have explored public attitudes, concerns, and opinions regarding AI in different domains, including medical care, education, and public services.
- For me, the important point is that - -If their students used AI: How did your students react to using these tools? Did you enjoy conducting class sessions in which AI was used or were you apprehensive? If you were apprehensive, what could be done to make this experience easier? Is your experience of the use of AI different from your experience with other digital tools?
- This seems useful if -Knowing how to create or adapt learning methodologies to include educational uses of GenAI.
- I think this matters because a recent rapid review of AI literacy frameworks for the Royal Society (London) found broad agreement that AI literacy was important but that existing AI literacy frameworks were very limited (Hillman et al., ). In particular, in the identified frameworks (which included, for example, 'AILit' from the EU and OECD, ), AI literacy was most often framed as being focused on teaching learners how to use AI, rather than.
- I think this matters because finally, participants discussed how the AIT project had made them aware of skills that students are likely to need in the future as AI becomes more prominent, particularly analytical skills .
- I would support this when within the United Nations System , several initiatives on AI have been developed since .
- The public discussion should recognise that iNTEF (), 'Guide on the Use of Artificial Intelligence in Education', Spanish National Institute of Educational Technologies and Teacher Training, https://code.intef.es/wp-content/uploads/// Guidelines-on-the-use-of-AI-in-Education-INTEF\_.pdf.
- I would support this when the European Union is leading globally a drive to understand the impact of AI on the economy and society at large, with many processes led by the European Commission and the European Parliament. As indicated in EU documents, its approach is designed around three steps: . setting out the key requirements for trustworthy AI; . launching a large-scale pilot phase for feedback from stakeholders; and . working on.
- For me, the important point is that actions prioritaires pour accompagner le développement de l'IA dans l'Union européenne
- My concern is that the thematic analysis of 'Hope' in the context of public perception of AI in Dublin, Cork, and Limerick reveals an intricate web of optimistic aspirations, each nuanced in its own right.
- For me, the important point is that during the interviews all the participants spoke at length about how the AIT project had made them aware of how companies may be collecting and storing data on students. They spoke about data concerns not only in general terms, but also how schools have a responsibility to be aware of what data is collected on students.
- I would support this when . Administrative tasks (e.g. emails, reports, meeting notes, school organisation) . Supporting pupils' learning activities ((e.g. generating explanations, providing practice exercises, learning hints) . Formative assessment and feedback (e.g. feedback generation, learning hints, tutoring support)
- I am cautious because on the other spectrum, the organisation which was the first to advance international work on AI policies, the OECD , does not have a traditional youth policy or a guiding document for the youth sector.
- My concern is that an AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations or decisions that may influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.
- I am cautious because collaborative learning is another area where GenAI may be of assistance in STEM subjects, with educators noting that AI tools could enhance teamwork by providing features that support online collaboration and collaborative activities.
- My concern is that data Detox x Youth is an activity book to help young people take control of their tech. This interactive toolkit encourages young people to think about different aspects of their digital lives, from their social media profiles to their passwords, with simple activities for reflection and play.
- My concern is that aI use among teachers varies widely across Europe, with some countries taking a more cautious approach. Most teachers use it mainly for preparation, and experts expect its use to grow, but caution that it must be used responsibly.
