# Public views on AI tools and learning

- Students should understand that (e.g., between academia, technology sector, government) and youth-driven educational innovation
- Students should understand that the SEC's attempt to impose guardrails on the use of AI is necessary, but the rules as outlined are too vague, providing only a few examples of acceptable and unacceptable use. More importantly, however, they are divorced from any kind of reality.
- Parents and teachers need to know that christensen, R. W., & Knezek, G. A. (). Construct validity for the teachers' attitudes toward computers questionnaire. Journal of Computing in Teacher Education , (), -.
- I am cautious because in Ireland research participants saw potential for GenAI technologies to change practices in schools in time, provided the curriculum is adapted to enable such technologies to be utilised by students. Teachers and school leaders recognised that the curriculum dictates what is taught in Irish postprimary schools and they called for the curriculum to be updated to include AI literacy as a core competence, so that.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that fernandez Machado, R., Sofia Amaral-Garcia and Duch Brown, N. (), 'Workplace Adoption of InHouse GenAI Tools: The Case of GPT@JRC at the European Commission', European Commission, Seville (Spain), https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC.
- I think this matters because in addition, some of the teachers spoke at length about Microsoft Teams and were very positive about the ability it gives them to monitor student progress through the analytics function, and how they used the software to provide individualised work to students.
- Parents and teachers need to know that european Union (b), Directive (EU) / of the European Parliament and of the Council of April on copyright and related rights in the Digital Single Market and amending Directives //EC and //EC, available at https://eurlex.europa.eu/eli/dir///oj, accessed March .
- My concern is that international Labour Organization (), The feasibility of using big data in anticipating and matching skills needs , available at www.ilo.org/skills/areas/skills-training-for-poverty-reduction/WCMS\_/lang--en/index.htm, accessed March .
- Parents and teachers need to know that uN Counter-Terrorism Centre (), Research Launch on Examining the Intersection between Gaming and Violent Extremism, available at www.un.org/counterterrorism/Examining-the-Intersection-Between-Gaming-and-Violent Extremism, accessed November .
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that - The deskilling of the profession : The gradual loss of pedagogical expertise as teachers become facilitators of software rather than masters of their subject matter. - Cognitive dependency and atrophy : The long-term erosion of foundational 'slow thinking' skills, such as critical analysis, as students outsource mental effort. - Erosion of social learning : The loss of peer-to-peer collaboration and.
- Students should understand that the participants' evaluation numbers, which were specific to the country, and the country entered by participants was checked. In the teacher, school leader and student questionnaires, there was no inconsistency between these two variables.
- I think this matters because our education system from primary to secondary now emphasises the fact that education is about the holistic development of students to prepare them for life as citizens and workers in an age of rapid change.
- I am cautious because so I think it was great to have different maths teachers. And I know that it was quite a different spread of interests and experience. But also it was very good to have a different subject as well, and understanding how a humanities subject would bring in this technology, and their concerns. So having colleagues there from different schools and different experiences focused the learning on all classes. Not just your.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the European Commission also set up an expert group on AI and data in education and training, to bring policy initiatives closer to students and educators.
- I am cautious because indicative comment: 'So I think that there was a lot in the MOOC, of course, and I think what the learning day did is that it really helped highlight the important things out of the MOOC. It really helped to cement that. So, hand in hand, I think they went quite well together .'
- For me, the important point is that kU Leuven (), Open Letter: We are not ready for manipulative AI - urgent need for action, available at www.law.kuleuven.be/ai-summer-school/open-brief/openletter-manipulative-ai, accessed April .
- For me, the important point is that to be honest, I liked the way that it was set up. After the first day I felt I was a bit, I suppose, unsure about what exactly was being asked of us, you know. There was lots of, you know, information from speakers, etc. And it was all very interesting information, but honestly, I left just not entirely knowing what I was meant to do when I got back to school. Document: S.docx Tags: Learning day - unclear learning.
- I think this matters because conversely, if not implemented adequately, generative AI may interfere with a child's learning and school development. UNICEF highlights that the way children interact with AI has both physiological and psychological implications. The recently formed international Beneficial AI for Children Coalition, involving multiple stakeholders, has committed to put forward guidelines that evaluate impact and mitigate risk.
- My concern is that some of the implications that might arise from this perception point to a shift towards individual work for those students who rely on AI too heavily, possibly manifesting in reduced communication with both peers and teachers. Moreover, this isolation could curtail debates, peer feedback, and mentorship processes that are critical to collaborative learning. It could also entail a hindrance for the development of.
- I would support this when uNESCO (n.d.), International Centre for Technical and Vocational Education and Training, Concept of Governance, available at https://unevoc.unesco.org/home/ TVETipedia+Glossary/lang=en/show=term/term=governance, accessed March .
- My concern is that indicative comment: 'And I know that it was quite a different spread of interests and experience. But also it was very good to have a different subject as well, and understanding how a humanities subject would bring in this technology, and their concerns. So having colleagues there from different schools and different experiences, focused the learning on all classes. Not just your own specific context.'
- My concern is that the discussion summarises teachers’ positive and negative perceptions of Duolingo and Photomath.
- Parents and teachers need to know that - a. Duolingo . -Negatives: lack of ability to teach same thing to entire class, lack of information for teachers - b. Photomath . -Negatives: very topic dependent, not useful for weaker students, some teachers did not use at all - c. ChatGPT . -Positives: useful for planning lessons and developing materials, clarifying thoughts . -Negatives: need for specific prompts, awareness of student use (maybe to cheat) - d..
