# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- A sensible approach would start from the idea that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the following statements regarding the AIT professional learning pathway
- Students should understand that pour **les entreprises françaises**, les perceptions sont majoritairement favorables.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the YAP were aware that AI could impact their right to be kept safe. The information provided by AI could be harmful, especially for younger children. It could be easier for children to see and be influenced by violent or harmful content using AI. Not every chatbot has safety features in place to make sure their responses are age appropriate.
- I am cautious because in light of the qualitative attributes and ordinal scale of the dataset, non-parametric statistical methodologies were judiciously selected for this investigation. Predominantly, Chi-Squared tests and Spearman's Rank Correlation Coefficient were utilized to evaluate the interrelationships among the delineated variables, namely ID, age, gender, level of educational attainment, employment sector, and the subjectively.
- The public discussion should recognise that in the context of European youth work, the discussion on AI seems to be in its early stages - either as a theoretical concept, a tool, or an activity. While there is some understanding of what AI does and how it can affect young people's lives, there is a lack of shared definition of how AI should be approached in the context of youth work. the analysis revealed several thematic areas which might shed a light on the.
- The public discussion should recognise that teachers also spoke about how the course prompted them to have discussions with colleagues about the use of AI in the classroom.
- I am cautious because as well as speaking about specific components of the AIT course, participants spoke about various aspects of the overall course structure. Many remarked that the different components complemented each other.
- Students should understand that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who reported that in the next five years they plan to use AI in the following settings
- This seems useful if council of Europe Youth Department (), Declaration on Youth Participation in AI Governance, available at https://rm.coe.int/declaration-on-youth-participationin-ai-governance-eng-/aa, accessed March .
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that young people - and therefore also youth workers - need to know how to continue to critically examine, learn, and find one's way in an increasingly AI -driven way to respond to the ever-changing socioeconomic dynamics. The overall AI adoption market is expected to be worth $ billion by and most jobs of the future will require young people to have digital competences (World Economic Forum, ). As digital transformation.
- I am cautious because this section highlights the main guiding documents developed by each international organisation in the AI field.
- I think this matters because with the ongoing automatization of young people's lives (and by extension the youth sector), there is a sense that youth work needs to play a critical role in ensuring that young people become informed and proactive citizens within the new tech-political structures. Youth work - seen as an out-of-school democratic educational practice - should be considered as a safe space where AI can be explored both in a.
- The public discussion should recognise that besides developing their knowledge on AI, there was an increase in teachers' reported use of AI tools (both generic and educational) to teach. In addition, there was a corresponding increase in asking their students to use educational AI tools (Table ).
- My concern is that the research instruments were based on a meta-theoretical framework, known as the ActivityCentred Analysis and Design framework (ACAD), which was created to support educators and learners as co-designers of learning situation (Goodyear et al., ). ACAD has been adopted before as a theoretical lens to re-conceptualise educational design in an AI world, 'by exploring a problem space of educational design, with a.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that it is essential to take into consideration all these aspects for the design of effective training programs that address fears and misconceptions surrounding technology adoption. For instance, it is important that students are made aware that they are interacting with an AI system and ensure they understand the nature of such systems and its potential impact on their emotional regulation. Also in Spain, the focus.
- The public discussion should recognise that digitalisation of youth work has often been understood as the use of social media. However, new digital technologies are emerging rapidly. Artificial intelligence, virtual reality, robotics and block-chain technology, inter alia are affecting our societies beyond the sphere of communication.
- My concern is that in the survey, AI use includes making predictions, suggesting decisions or generating text. It covers the use of AI in teaching or to facilitate student learning in the months prior to the survey.
- This seems useful if the report highlights the need for comprehensive policies and guidelines on GenAI use in education. At policy level, there is a need to promote the inclusion of GenAI into AI literacy efforts, curricular updates, teacher education, and professional development for educators. New policy measures, such as investing in infrastructure and resources, could support effective and ethical GenAI integration. Significant.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that table . below displays data extracted from a survey conducted in Dublin city centre. The survey queried people with a series of questions aimed at gauging public perceptions concerning Artificial Intelligence (AI). The dataset is structured along seven dimensions:
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that relatedly, participants remarked negatively on the relevance of the information to their teaching.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that youths aged to . Experts break down complex concepts about AI into straightforward activities
- My concern is that cette confiance dans l'échelon européen s'explique aisément. Dans un espace numérique transfrontières, les règlementations strictement nationales apparaissent fragmentées et inégales. L'Union a déjà démontré sa capacité à produire des cadres juridiques structurants dans le domaine numérique, à commencer par le RGPD.
- This seems useful if there are clear disparities between the degrees to which AI is being explored in the European youth sector. There is a small group of people who feel confident and are keen to examine AI either in a practical way or as a topic of discussion (e.g., ethics, AI impact on democracy). Survey results revealed that a minority of youth workers seem to proactively engage in AI related activities in their organisations. In.
