# Public views on AI tools and learning

- My concern is that soutien à l'intégration de modules obligatoires sur l'IA dans les programmes scolaires et les formations professionnelles
- Parents and teachers need to know that men use artificial intelligence tools more than women, both in their private and professional lives.
- I think this matters because - Road map for digital cooperation. - Implementation of the recommendations of the High-Level Panel on Digital Cooperation. - UNESCO Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence, . - UNICEF initiatives and resources addressing young people’s role in shaping AI, including policy guidance on AI for children. - UNESCO multistakeholder AI development guidance, including building blocks for inclusive policy.
- I would support this when leslie D. et al. (), 'Artificial intelligence, human rights, democracy, and the rule of law: a primer' , prepared to support the Feasibility Study published by the Ad hoc Committee on Artificial Intelligence, Council of Europe and The Alan Turing Institute, available at https://rm.coe.int/primer-en-new-cover-pages-coe-englishcompressed v-/afda, accessed November .
- This seems useful if e(）,this.liste YAP members spoke about how AI could support their creativity beyond being a useful tool. If more time-consuming tasks are automated, they argued, people could have more time to spend on creative work they enjoy.
- My concern is that mittelstadt, B. (), 'Principles alone cannot guarantee ethical AI', Nature Machine Intelligence , Vol. , Issue , pp. -, https://doi.org/./s---.
- Students should understand that synergies between youth and AI policies -there are no clear synergies between AI and youth policies. While youth strategies refer to the role of digital technologies, very few mention AI specifically. AI regulatory frameworks have little or no references to young people or the youth sector. Most often, young people and AI are connected in relation to digital skills and the future of work.
- Students should understand that this exploratory study investigates the implications of GenAI for education in five EU Member States: Finland, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, and Spain. The research yields valuable insights into the potential benefits and challenges associated with integrating GenAI in educational settings, drawing from the perspectives of relevant stakeholders: policymakers, teacher educators, teachers, school leaders, and.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that eC: DG RTD (), 'Living guidelines on the responsible use of generative AI in research', April, Brussels, https://research-and-innovation.ec.europa.eu/document/bcfe-ac-cbaab-ddc\_en.
- This seems useful if participants remarked positively on how the MOOC taught them information about AI, both in education and in other aspects of life.
- I would support this when the smart cities initiative is a concept built around the integration of technologies in the way cities function. It is seen in many projects from sensors that monitor the quality of air, traffic intensity to automation of public services, all having a strong focus on collecting and using data, implicitly a strong AI feature. In this context, it is relevant to look at how municipalities engage or could engage young.
- The public discussion should recognise that moving from a classroom focus to considering the impact of the use of AI in their schools, prior to completing the AIT programme, most teachers agreed that an increase in the use of AI tools in their schools would have a positive impact on some elements of teaching and learning (e.g., teaching quality will increase, students' academic success will improve, and teaching will be personalised to each student's needs).
- Students should understand that out of teachers who used AI, on average in the European Union (EU-), almost twothirds ( per cent) say that they use it to efficiently learn about and summarise a topic, and per cent use AI to generate lesson plans or activities. The two highest percentages indicate that AI is used mainly for teachers' own preparation.
- I think this matters because the dataset from Table . paints a nuanced picture of public perceptions towards artificial intelligence (AI) among participants in Limerick City Centre. Notably, fear levels are higher in this population compared to previously analysed datasets from Dublin and Cork. Occupationally, the participants represent a range of jobs, most of which are commonplace roles in the public sphere. Turning to descriptive statistics,.
- I think this matters because . Ada Lovelace Institute (), The data divide , available at www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/ the-data-divide/, accessed November .
- Parents and teachers need to know that aI as a challenge for youth and fundamental rights - research published in recent years showcases an increasing number of situations in which AI technologies have led to social harms, especially by perpetrating historic biases, amplifying polarisation and accumulated disadvantages. Some of the causes of such harms have been connected to insufficient testing, lack of ethical or legal standards, or lack of information.
- I think this matters because . How likely do you consider the following statements about AI's impact on teachers' professional roles and wellbeing?
- The public discussion should recognise that cette figure compare la manière dont les répondants français perçoivent l’impact global de l’intelligence artificielle sur les entreprises françaises et sur la société française en général.
- I would support this when uNESCO (), Multistakeholder AI development: building blocks for inclusive policy design , available at https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark://pf, accessed March .
- My concern is that this paper begins by an overview of the methodology and the data collection methods used. The findings are then presented in three sections: () Youth workers perceptions of AI; () Perceived benefits of AI in youth work; () Perceived issues and concerns about AI in youth work. This is followed by a set of considerations for the youth sector and researchers. The final section provides examples of existing AI resources.
- I would support this when digital welfare state and the automatization of youth work: we just can't catch up
- Parents and teachers need to know that ces analyses convergent sur un point : lorsque la compréhension n'avance pas au même rythme que la technique, la capacité de maîtriser les usages s'amenuise. La connaissance devient alors un élément de régulation à part entière.
- This seems useful if in the context of Humanities subjects , the integration of GenAI has significant implications for teaching and learning. Humanities subjects, including arts and languages, are characterised by the creation of content and the development of critical thinking, creativity, and analytical skills. Research participants highlighted how by automating routine tasks and generating new ideas, GenAI may facilitate artistic.
