# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- The public discussion should recognise that this study collected data during , at a time when GenAI was attracting the attention of early adopters in the educational sector. Such users in secondary education started to experiment extensively with this technology soon after it was available in the consumer market. Educators and students saw GenAI as a tool to enhance learning, but also raised concerns about academic integrity, bias and the potential risks of.
- Students should understand that - new forms of inclusion and communication; - new opportunities for data analysis and improved policy responses; - automation of administrative tasks.
- The public discussion should recognise that the EU seeks to secure children's online rights. The Digital Services Act (DSA) requires digital platforms to prioritise children's safety and privacy and protect them from illegal content. Measures that have to be put in place include age verification and not showing ads based on profiling of minors. The EU's Better Internet for Kids (BIK+) strategy seeks to boost digital literacy, provide awareness raising.
- Parents and teachers need to know that . AI will enhance teachers' ability to support individual pupils . AI will increase stress due to new responsibilities (e.g. monitoring pupils' AI use, ensuring ethical and appropriate use, managing data protection and privacy, or adapting teaching and assessment practices)
- For me, the important point is that the most common theme identified in this study is that AI seems to be an ever present but invisible and impersonal force that affects different areas of youth work practice. Some study participants described AI as 'everything that is not visible' and 'cannot be touched'. Despite not being able to exactly define AI in their practice, most participants agreed that its influence in the sector should not be.
- Parents and teachers need to know that 'AI is a robot that can learn from past conversations with people without needing to be reprogrammed.'
- I think this matters because in response to the perceptions and uses of early adopters of GenAI in secondary education across the five EU Member States included in this study, the following considerations have been formulated to support the work of policymakers with responsibilities in this area.
- For me, the important point is that the analysis of collected data involved straightforward statistical methods in its quantitative and qualitative approaches. Descriptive statistics like mean and mode were used to summarize responses to the questions about optimism and fear. The quantitative analysis also involved testing correlations between demographic factors such as age, gender, and education against levels of optimism and fear. Statistical tests.
- For me, the important point is that the argument here is that for AIED ethical guidance to be actionable and effective, it is first necessary to go beyond the 'commonsense' superficial understandings of 'being ethical' or 'being good', to ground the discussion in a robust understanding of normative ethics - something that almost never happens. The fact that the many guidance documents tend to ignore two millennia of moral philosophy is a core weakness.
- I think this matters because research participants highlighted the importance of developing AI literacy among both in-service and pre-service teachers, in order for them to be able to harness the potential of GenAI in their teaching and minimise potential risks. However, when discussing the negative impact of GenAI on education their attention primarily focused on aspects related to students' misuse and overreliance. Overall, they perceived the.
- Parents and teachers need to know that table . below displays data extracted from a survey conducted in Dublin city centre. The survey queried respondents with a series of questions aimed at gauging public perceptions concerning Artificial Intelligence (AI). The dataset is structured along seven dimensions:
- I think this matters because the evidence shows coded qualitative excerpts from teacher interviews about the AIT learning day.
- This seems useful if enter artificial intelligence, a technology that systematically, whether by design or accident, strangulates human creativity, critical thinking and independence of thought. People now routinely ask AI for information and life advice, accepting the answers without performing any due diligence. When we enter a question into the search engine and the AI-generated answer pops up, who actually clicks into each website.
- Students should understand that european Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. (). Bias in Algorithms - Artificial Intelligence and Discrimination. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, available at: https://fra.europa.eu/sites/default/files/fra\_uploads/fra--bias-in-algorithms\_en.pdf
- My concern is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who reported that in the next five years they plan to use AI in the following settings
- Students should understand that - a. Join European and national debates related to AI technologies; whether they are connected to the future of cities, the future of work or more technical issues, youth voices are insufficiently represented. - b. Claim a space in the consultative, advisory or decision-making structures that deal with AI governance. They can be part of public institutions or of private companies that develop technologies. - c..
- Parents and teachers need to know that an overview of this is outlined in Figure and a summary of each of the main points raised by the teachers is outlined below.
- Parents and teachers need to know that the data collected for the study suggests that, shortly after the mainstreaming of GenAI tools, students in post-primary schools were already actively using GenAI systems for different purposes, often more intensively than their teachers. They were incorporating GenAI into their daily school activities, using it as a supportive tool to put skills into practice (e.g., conversing in a foreign language), receive.
- The public discussion should recognise that other ethical issues typically engaged with by the AI research community include bias and fairness. Bias in AI has long been the subject of research (e.g., Crawford, ), mostly from a deontological perspective, revealing many overlapping types of bias, each of which deserves specific attention. For example, there is 'historic' bias (such as cultural, and social stereotypes), 'measurement' bias (data inevitably.
- I would support this when democratising AI - from a technical field to broad engagement -low youth engagement in formal AI governance processes, where other stakeholders are more active (including academia, private companies or more specialised digital rights organisations), might be because youth stakeholders have a fear of not having sufficient expertise on the topic and avoid participation. It is natural to expect that professionals with.
