# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- I think this matters because what can education providers do to help learners keep up with GenAI changes in education and the workplace?
- For me, the important point is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the following statements regarding their confidence in using digital technologies in class
- My concern is that . Saving time on pedagogical tasks (e.g. generating learning materials and activities, preparing assessment, facilitate the marking of exercises).
- This seems useful if cette figure montre quelles actions les répondants pensent que l’Union européenne devrait prioriser pour accompagner le développement de l’intelligence artificielle. Elle distingue les réponses citées en premier du total des réponses citées en premier, deuxième ou troisième.
- I am cautious because indicative comment: 'But like I feel, maybe if I needed to practice the difference between passe compose and imparfait , I wasn't kind of getting a feel that I could send them into a section to work on that. So probably my own traditional way of looking at some of these things - it isn't going to do that necessarily. I don't know. Maybe I missed a step, or there was something I wasn't getting. But yeah, if you.
- I am cautious because participants' reactions were assessed through the measure of their engagement in, and satisfaction with, the professional learning pathway. The level of engagement in the professional learning pathway was measured through the behavioural, cognitive, social and emotional connections that the participants made with the course content, the instructors and the other learners. While the behavioural engagement corresponds.
- Students should understand that design for learning is a key element of the teaching profession, understood as the planning of experiences and situations aimed at helping students achieve the intended learning outcomes of subjects and whole programmes, ultimately supporting the development of competences and attributes as defined by the curriculum. The early adopters of GenAI in secondary education involved in this study started to experiment with.
- Parents and teachers need to know that - Topic dependent - Not useful for weaker students - Some teachers did not use it at all
- I am cautious because in summary, it is generally accepted by researchers, educators and policymakers that AIED raises far-reaching questions with important ethical implications for students, educators, parents, policymakers, and other stakeholders. The implications of the generic ethical issues mentioned earlier for AI (such as bias and fairness) are both relevant for education and even more acute, given that many users are legal minors.
- This seems useful if out of teachers who used AI, on average in the European Union (EU-), almost twothirds ( per cent) say that they use it to efficiently learn about and summarise a topic, and per cent use AI to generate lesson plans or activities. The two highest percentages indicate that AI is used mainly for teachers' own preparation.
- I am cautious because holmes, W., Porayska-Pomsta, K., Holstein, K., Sutherland, E., Baker, T., Shum, S.B., Santos, O.C., Rodrigo, M.T., Cukurova, M., Bittencourt, I.I. and Koedinger, K.R., (). Ethics of AI in education: Towards a community-wide framework. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence in Education , pp.-.
- My concern is that according to UNESCO, AI literacy entails the skills and knowledge required for effective use of AI tools in everyday life, with an awareness of the risks and opportunities associated with them. Incorporating AI literacy is therefore essential for building foundational understanding and skills to bridge the digital divide and foster inclusion. Despite the pivotal role of learning development, AI literacy is still.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that relatedly, many also remarked how participating in the course had made them understand how common/ubiquitous AI is in various aspects of their lives (both personal and professional).
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that youths aged to . Experts break down complex concepts about AI into straightforward activities
- My concern is that . Risk of inappropriate or unethical use of AI by pupils due to lack of clear guidance . Risk of inappropriate or unethical use of AI by teachers due to lack of clear guidance . Insufficient teacher training opportunities on AI and data use . Insufficient resources to develop pupils' digital skills and AI literacy . Increased workload for teachers due to monitoring AI use
- My concern is that avoin yhteiskunta ry and Faktabaari EDU (), Ai Guide for Teachers , https://faktabaari.fi/assets/Faktabaari\_Tekoalyopas\_opettajille\_\_ENG.pdf.
- I am cautious because for the purposes of the survey, teachers were asked to indicate one of the class groups they were going to work with that year using the AI powered tools recommended by the AIT project. This class was used by teachers as a reference during the completion of the questionnaire.
- My concern is that indeed, implementation of automated decision-making processes into education, welfare, and social services are often viewed as efficient and productive. There is a sense of fear that AI might be used as a shortcut and money saving solution to substitute youth work services in the future. However, this study reveals that AI is sometimes seen as a new and additional workload - both in theoretical and practical terms..
- My concern is that this section identifies the main guiding documents from a youth policy perspective and to which extent they reflect AI topics.
- For me, the important point is that eC: JRC (), Generative AI outlook report: exploring the intersection of technology, society, and policy, Kotsev, A., Navajas Cawood, E., Van Bavel, R. and Vespe, M. (eds), Publications Office, Luxembourg, https://doi.org/./.
- Parents and teachers need to know that - the technical dimension, including how AI works and coding; - the human dimension, including ethics, bias, and data use.
- I would support this when oECD (a), How to Engage Youths in Open Governance - A Communication Guide, available at www.youthpower.org/resources/how-engage-youths-opengovernance-communication-guide, accessed March .
- My concern is that way back in December , a small research company called OpenAI released a beta version of its Large Language Model (LLM) into the ether.
- My concern is that in light of the qualitative attributes and ordinal scale of the dataset, non-parametric statistical methodologies were judiciously selected for this investigation. Predominantly, Chi-Squared tests and Spearman's Rank Correlation Coefficient were utilized to evaluate the interrelationships among the delineated variables, namely ID, age, gender, level of educational attainment, employment sector, and the subjectively.
