# Public discussion on responsible AI in education

- The public discussion should recognise that whether for supporting smart city initiatives or for wider empowerment of young people to shape AI technologies, the list below showcases some successful practices that can inspire design of co-creative practices with young people.
- I think this matters because fernandez Machado, R., Sofia Amaral-Garcia and Duch Brown, N. (), 'Workplace Adoption of InHouse GenAI Tools: The Case of GPT@JRC at the European Commission', European Commission, Seville (Spain), https://publications.jrc.ec.europa.eu/repository/handle/JRC.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that for an overview of the national education system of Ireland, including a description of secondary education, see the page of its Eurydice Network national unit: https://eurydice.eacea.ec.europa.eu/national-educationsystems/ireland/overview
- I would support this when overall, the integration of GenAI into secondary education has significant implications for the way Humanities subjects are taught and learned. While GenAI offers many benefits, such as facilitating artistic exploration and innovation, making language learning more inclusive, and providing personalised feedback and guidance, it also raises important questions about the nature of creativity, human interaction, and.
- I think this matters because jang, Y., Choi, S., & Kim, H. (). Development and validation of an instrument to measure undergraduate students' attitudes toward the ethics of artificial intelligence (AT-EAI) and analysis of its difference by gender and experience of AI education . https://link.springer.com/article/./s--
- For me, the important point is that council of Europe - Artificial Intelligence, Council of Europe's work in progress, available at www.coe.int/en/web/artificial-intelligence/work-in-progress#EN, accessed March .
- This seems useful if indicative comment: 'I suppose when I left the initial launch day, I still wasn't entirely sure what I was going to do in my classroom. There was about fifteen minutes talking about Photomath, and then everything else was talking about, in general, what AI is. So, I think a bit more focus on … I'm selfish, like how am I going to apply this in the classroom? What am I going to do?'
- Parents and teachers need to know that transférer la responsabilité de comprendre aux seules organisations ou aux seuls individus revient à laisser s'installer un décalage qui n'est plus seulement technique mais potentiellement, sociétal. Ce décalage a été analysé sous des angles différents par deux auteurs souvent mobilisés dans les débats technologiques. Günther Anders décrivait ce qu'il appelait la « disproportion prométhéenne » : la technique.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that . Familiarisation: The data was collected via Zoom; thus, the researcher was provided with an audio transcript of each interview. In order to make each transcript usable, the researcher listened to the audio and amended the transcript to fix any errors. In doing so he started to gain familiarity with the data. This process took approximately five times as long as the length of each transcript. . Coding: The.
- Parents and teachers need to know that in the survey, AI use includes making predictions, suggesting decisions or generating text. It covers the use of AI in teaching or to facilitate student learning in the months prior to the survey.
- I think this matters because despite differences, educators across disciplines have recognised the potential of GenAI in their respective contexts, without ignoring important challenges at the same time. A key theme across all subjects was the potential role of GenAI in supporting critical thinking and problem-solving skills and the shift of focus to the process of learning, rather than just the outcomes. In STEM and Arts and Humanities.
- I am cautious because in summary, for AIED ethical guidance to be actionable and effective, it is necessary to ground the discussion in a robust understanding of normative ethics, the ethics of AI, and the ethics of education itself. This foundational work, particularly in terms of governance mechanisms at every state of the AI development pipeline, together with how ethics is operationalised in current EU guidelines and how ethics can.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the discussion compares AI-related policy references across four institutional contexts: the Council of Europe, the European Union, the United Nations system, and the OECD.
- This seems useful if it is also necessary for developers to work with teachers to create more appropriate educational AI tools.
- For me, the important point is that indicative comment: 'I suppose when I left the initial launch day, I still wasn't entirely sure what I was going to do in my classroom. There was about fifteen minutes talking about Photomath, and then everything else was talking about, in general, what AI is. So, I think a bit more focus on … I'm selfish, like how am I going to apply this in the classroom? What am I going to do?'
- I think this matters because comprehending these intricate perspectives is pivotal for the formulation of informed policies and AI development strategies that resonate with societal values and aspirations. Ultimately, a nuanced, regionally tailored approach, underpinned by ethical considerations, will be integral to the successful integration of AI within society.
- Students should understand that selwyn, N. (), Should robots replace teachers? AI and the future of education , Digital futures, Polity Press, Cambridge, UK ; Medford, MA, USA, LB. .S .
- For me, the important point is that d: That's interesting that you said not just maths teachers in the group … Were there aspects that the humanities people brought up that you hadn't thought about?
- I think this matters because strong regional patterns do not clearly emerge, although in general, Western European countries tend to have lower teacher use of AI compared with the Western Balkans and Eastern Europe.
- My concern is that this section identifies the main guiding documents from a youth policy perspective and to which extent they reflect AI topics.
- My concern is that the interactions began with a warm-up discussion leading into the main questions, which followed different tracks depending on whether the session was an interview or a focus group.
- I think this matters because - productivity; - personalised learning; - vulnerable groups; - flexible youth services.
- This seems useful if at the time when fieldwork for our study took place in Finland , the Finnish National Agency for Education (FNAE) Opetushallitus and the Ministry of Education and Culture (FMEC) were working in partnership with key stakeholders (e.g., experts in the fields of education, researchers) to develop a set of recommendations for the use of AI in early childhood education, basic education, liberal education, and upper.
