# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- I am cautious because my Learning (), + Best Chat GPT Use Cases in Various Industries , available at www.mlyearning.org/chat-gpt-use-cases/, accessed April .
- I would support this when the term 'artificial intelligence' was coined in and has ever since been used in different ways, with no universally accepted definition from a technical or legal perspective. Public understanding of AI ranges from apocalyptic visions that the world will be ruled and controlled by robots and super-intelligent powers, to more pragmatic ones, in which AI is powering most of the technologies used today (social media.
- I am cautious because to assign teachers and schools to the control and intervention groups, a stratification procedure was followed by the evaluation team (see Appendix ). The randomisation took place before the administration of the baseline questionnaire for teachers, but schools were not informed which schools had been assigned to the control or intervention groups. With the cooperation of the PDST, the teachers were randomised at.
- My concern is that in summary, for AIED ethical guidance to be actionable and effective, it is necessary to ground the discussion in a robust understanding of normative ethics, the ethics of AI, and the ethics of education itself. This foundational work, particularly in terms of governance mechanisms at every state of the AI development pipeline, together with how ethics is operationalised in current EU guidelines and how ethics can.
- I am cautious because schema was employed on a dataset drawn from Cork City Centre, containing people. This dataset furnished a heterogeneous demographic backdrop across various variables, including age, gender, educational levels, and employment sectors. Each respondent was evaluated for their levels of "Optimism" and "Fear" towards AI, employing a similar Likert scale ranging from to , as represented in Table .. This provides an.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that . Humlum, A., & Vestergaard, E. (). The Adoption of ChatGPT. (https://doi.org/./ssrn.) . Carvajal, D., Franco, C., & Isaksson, S. (). Will Artificial Intelligence Get in the Way of Achieving Gender Equality? SSRN Electronic Journal. https://doi.org/./ssrn. (https://doi.org/./ssrn.)
- The public discussion should recognise that oECD (), Multistakeholder Expert Group Annual Report, The Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence (GPAI), available at https://gpai.ai/projects/, accessed March .
- This seems useful if 'surveillance ads, algorithms that shape what we see or not in the internet and deceptive design practicesreduce our young peoples' ability to organi se among young people for the causes we care about, such as climate change, social justice, access to fair remuneration and employment, democratic engagement, etc. Big Tech companies should not have a free playground to decide young people's lives and futu re' (EDRi, ).
- This seems useful if indicative comment: 'And the first day I found it was very interesting, but I found that there wasn't much towards the AI that we would be using in the class, and it was just, I suppose, like most of it, it was really good to know about it, but I'd rather if there was a lot more, maybe like, could be a half an hour or an hour on what we would actually be doing in our classrooms.'
- Parents and teachers need to know that aI embeds the power of large corporations rather than redistributing power. AI is a conservative movement that serves existing power structures. Infringement of our rights by AI should be challenged (Stakelum, ).
- I would support this when uN Counter-Terrorism Centre (), Research Launch on Examining the Intersection between Gaming and Violent Extremism, available at www.un.org/counterterrorism/Examining-the-Intersection-Between-Gaming-and-Violent Extremism, accessed November .
- Students should understand that debates concerning AI policies became more visible in . At the core there were several issues clustered in two main categories:
- I would support this when all the teachers indicated that the design of the AIT professional learning pathway with the combination of different elements worked particularly well. The different elements coupled with the excellent quality of facilitation during the pathway (e.g., the pedagogical team was very responsive to participants' questions) enabled them to take an active role in the pathway, including sharing their professional.
- For me, the important point is that generically, all AI policies (legally binding or non-binding) are referred to as AI governance - in short, managing how AI works, how it is used and who has a role in the processes. We are starting from a point in which AI governance cannot be defined as a single process, pertaining to a single institution, but rather a multilayered process with implications in many fields - from human rights to economy or.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that european Commission, Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture. (). Final report of the Commission expert group on artificial intelligence and data in education and training : a executive summary , Publications Office of the European Union, , https://data.europa.eu/doi/./
- I would support this when complementing all the above practices, focused on the actual engagement of young people, AI ethical advisory boards of companies deserve a special attention. As debates about AI governance have intensified during the past years, even before the major international human rights organisations started working on it, many companies developing AI technologies recognised the importance of engaging wider social groups in.
- I think this matters because how to cite this report: Villar Onrubia, D., Cachia, R., Rietz, C., Feltrero, R., Niemi, H. et al ., Generative Artificial Intelligence in secondary education - Uses and perceptions from the perspective of early adopters across five EU Member States, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, ,
- I would support this when some young people said they liked that AI is now a part of Google's search engine, but they warned that it wasn't always accurate. They said it was important to scroll down through more search results. They preferred to use Chat GPT than traditional search engines because it's 'sleek, calm' and in their opinion, uses a wider range of reliable sources.
- I am cautious because in Ireland , Oide have recently developed a dedicated webpage for AI in schools, the AI Hub, which provides information and resources on AI and how it can benefit and support users, as well the current limitations and concerns about its use. They have also developed an online introductory course for teachers, 'AI for Schools'. The Teacher Educators interviewed for the study noted the importance of providing.
- I think this matters because it was just the fact that, the discussion between the facilitators and the other teachers. Other people's experiences-ways, maybe-that they were using apps that I hadn't considered. Now I was hearing lots from the languages as well, which wasn't so relevant to me. But at the same time I found it interesting, and I suppose I was hoping for a similar experience with the maths one.
