# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- I think this matters because the research presented in this report was co-funded by the European Commission's Joint Research Centre and the Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture (Nº JRC SEV--NFP // EAC--).
- For me, the important point is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who reported that the following descriptions could apply to an AI-based image recognition software
- I would support this when car s'agissant de l'IA, la part des indécis est nettement plus élevée que pour le numérique : français sur ne parvient pas à avoir une opinion tranchée sur les effets de l'IA sur nos vies. Cette indécision ne traduit pas seulement une hésitation, mais une difficulté de projection et, sans doute, d'appropriation.
- I would support this when in summary, for AIED ethical guidance to be actionable and effective, it is necessary to ground the discussion in a robust understanding of normative ethics, the ethics of AI, and the ethics of education itself. This foundational work, particularly in terms of governance mechanisms at every state of the AI development pipeline, together with how ethics is operationalised in current EU guidelines and how ethics can.
- For me, the important point is that samoili, S., Cobo, M. L., Gómez, E., De Prato, G., Martínez-Plumed, F., & Delipetrev, B. (). AI Watch. Defining Artificial Intelligence. Towards an operational definition and taxonomy of artificial intelligence. https://doi.org/./.
- The public discussion should recognise that indicative comment: 'So if they're going to be using it I need to say how do I teach them to use it well. So it's not just about finding the answer - look through the solution. Is there a different solution you can find? Are there different methods? So that you are always learning from it.'
- The public discussion should recognise that bertoletti, A., Cosgrove, J. and López Cobo, M. (), 'AI skills supply and demand: an analysis through online job advertisements and education and training offer', Publications Office, LU, https://data.europa.eu/doi/./.
- The public discussion should recognise that however, to determine the possible effects of participating in the AIT project, only the responses of those nine teachers who completed both the baseline and endline questionnaires, and who participated in the different elements of the professional learning experience, were included. These nine teachers were also interviewed in relation to their experiences of the AIT project. This analysis is also included in the.
- I think this matters because in most cases, however, the YAP are using AI on their own, not because teachers are asking them to or teaching them about it. They were aware that they have to be careful when doing so, like giving specific prompts to chatbots to get the information you need (e.g., write from the point of view of a Junior Cert student). Even though AI is helpful for essay writing, they said it can be 'obvious when AI is used',.
- The public discussion should recognise that relatedly, participants remarked negatively on the relevance of the information to their teaching.
- I think this matters because . and the much higher average fear score of ., as well as the influence of age and type of employment on these scores. Intriguingly, the gender-based findings in Limerick reverse the trends seen in Dublin and Cork, with men displaying more fear than women. In summary, the Limerick dataset uncovers a generally heightened sense of public trepidation towards AI, potentially influenced by factors like age, employment.
- I would support this when european Commission, Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture. (). Ethical guidelines on the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and data in teaching and learning for educators , Publications Office of the European Union, , https://data.europa.eu/doi/./
- My concern is that . Norqvist L. (), Analysis of the Digital Transformation of Society and its Impact on Young People's Lives, Youth Partnership, available at https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents/// Analysis+of+the+Digital+Transformation+of+Society+its+Impact+on+Young+People+Lives+-+Lars+ Norqvist.pdf/efaffa-bc--b-e, accessed April ..
- This seems useful if the vast majority of the teachers believed that they would find learning about and using AI tools easy, and that they would become skilful at using these tools. However, some of them were less confident that they would find it easy to get the AI tools to do what they wanted them to do.
- For me, the important point is that soutien à l'intégration de modules obligatoires sur l'IA dans les programmes scolaires et les formations professionnelles
- I think this matters because the first set of data was collected at the symposium Navigating Transitions: adapting policy to young people's changing realities , organised the partnership between the European Commission and the Council of Europe in the field of youth on - June in Tirana, Albania. The purpose of the workshop was to facilitate an open discussion with a group of symposium participants about their experiences of AI in the youth.
- Students should understand that in summary, the impact of AI on the public is wide-ranging and encompasses areas such as employment, public services, governance, public perception, and sustainable development. While AI has the potential to bring about positive changes and improvements, it also raises concerns and challenges that need to be addressed to ensure responsible and equitable deployment of AI technologies.
- This seems useful if w ith the growing number of initiatives aiming to address the challenges posed by AI development, this publication introduces some stakeholders working on policies that shape AI technologies, from national governments to international organisations. This section specifically looks at the initiatives developed by the major international organisations, while also providing a general overview on national practices.
- I would support this when youths aged to . Experts break down complex concepts about AI into straightforward activities
- Parents and teachers need to know that carvalho, L., Martinez-Maldonado, R., Tsai, Y.-S., Markauskaite, L. and De Laat, M. (), 'How can we design for learning in an AI world?', Computers and Education: Artificial Intelligence , Vol. , p. , https://doi.org/./j.caeai...
- This seems useful if genAI can be harnessed to improve student engagement in various ways, including personalizing learning experiences, providing interactive and immersive learning environments, and facilitating real-time feedback and assessment.
- For me, the important point is that most staff and learners agree that GenAI use is appropriate when clearly declared. They say it is acceptable to use GenAI without integrity being undermined if people are transparent about it. Some participants, however, raise questions of authenticity of work and say that outcomes are compromised when resources are not cited or researched properly. Some participants say the use of GenAI is not appropriate at all.
