# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- I am cautious because norqvist L. (), Analysis of the Digital Transformation of Society and its Impact on Young People's Lives, Youth Partnership, available at https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents///Analysis+of+the+Digital+Transformation+of+Soc iety+its+Impact+on+Young+People+Lives+-+Lars+Norqvist.pdf/efaffa-bc-b-e, accessed April ..
- For me, the important point is that united Kingdom Government (), AI Sector Deal, available at www.gov.uk/government/publications/artificial-intelligence-sector-deal/ai-sector-deal, accessed March .
- I would support this when the interviews focused on the teachers' experience of the professional learning activities and AI tools. They covered the dimensions addressed in the questionnaires to provide a better understanding of the responses given by the participants. The teachers were also asked about their expectations and recommendations regarding AI policies.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that in response to the perceptions and uses of early adopters of GenAI in secondary education across the five EU Member States included in this study, the following considerations have been formulated to support the work of policymakers with responsibilities in this area.
- The public discussion should recognise that artificial intelligence is a technology that simulates human intelligence in machines. It has different kinds, including narrow AI and general AI. AI is important due to its ability to automate tasks, improve efficiency, and enhance decision-making processes. Its impact in Europe is significant, with investments in research and development and initiatives to promote its adoption. However, the adoption of AI also.
- This seems useful if brewster J. et al. (), Beware the 'New Google': TikTok's Search Engine Pumps Toxic Misinformation To Its Young Users, Misinformation Monitor: September , NewGuard Tech, available at www.newsguardtech.com/misinformation-monitor/ september-/, accessed November .
- My concern is that they also liked that AI is available /, while teachers and parents are not. At the same time, YAP members worried that information AI provides might not always be true. Young people gave examples where AI companies could have alliances with certain countries or political agendas and therefore, be biased. They also argued that AI could use unreliable sources or leave important ones out altogether. Relying on AI as.
- I think this matters because norqvist L. (), Analysis of the Digital Transformation of Society and its Impact on Young People's Lives, Youth Partnership, available at https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents///Analysis+of+the+Digital+Transformation+of+Soc iety+its+Impact+on+Young+People+Lives+-+Lars+Norqvist.pdf/efaffa-bc-b-e, accessed April ..
- For me, the important point is that the EU's recently adopted AI Act is the world's first comprehensive AI law. It sets uniform rules to create a single market for trustworthy AI applications that fully respect fundamental rights, including children's rights. It has entered into force and will apply in full from August . The act classifies AI systems as high risk for some areas of education, such as access or admission to education, systems to.
- I would support this when the evidence describes an evaluation model for effective professional development, based on Guskey’s framework. It organises evaluation around teachers, school leaders, and students.
- This seems useful if uNESCO (), Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence, available at https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark://pf, accessed March .
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that remian, D. (). Augmenting Education: Ethical Considerations for Incorporating Artificial Intelligence in Education. Instructional Design Capstones Collection . https://scholarworks.umb.edu/instruction\_capstone/
- Parents and teachers need to know that indeed, implementation of automated decision-making processes into education, welfare, and social services are often viewed as efficient and productive. There is a sense of fear that AI might be used as a shortcut and money saving solution to substitute youth work services in the future. However, this study reveals that AI is sometimes seen as a new and additional workload - both in theoretical and practical terms..
- For me, the important point is that the High-Level Panel on Digital Cooperation (active during -), convened by the UN Secretary-General, was the first leading platform to connect the UN agenda with the impact of new digital technologies and their wider impact on society and human rights. Following the work of the panel, the Road map for digital cooperation: implementation of the recommendations of the High-Level Panel on Digital Cooperation is the.
- This seems useful if uNICEF (), Policy brief 'National AI strategies and children' , available at www. unicef.org/innocenti/documents/national-ai-strategies-and-children, accessed March .
- The public discussion should recognise that participants were selected, from each city, representing a diverse cross-section in terms of age, gender, educational background, and employment type.
- This seems useful if aI driven by young people's interests - there are youth workers who feel confident and are keen to examine AI either in a practical way or as a topic of discussion (for example ethics, AI's impact on democracy), yet they seem to be a minority. When such activities take place, they seem to be primarily driven by young people's interests in the latest technology trends or are grounded in previous experimentation with.
- I am cautious because table . Numbers/percentages of students who agreed with the following statements regarding AI
- I am cautious because lambrecht A. and Tucker C. E. (), Algorithmic Bias? An Empirical Study into Apparent Gender-Based Discrimination in the Display of STEM Career Ads, SSRN, available at https://ssrn.com/abstract= or http://dx.doi.org/./ ssrn., accessed April .
- For me, the important point is that - Topic dependent - Not useful for weaker students - Some teachers did not use it at all
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that to make sure schools, parents and young people adapt to AI, the YAP want to see:
- Parents and teachers need to know that e: Yeah I think-maybe I'm generalising-but they would talk a lot more about the risks … We're very black and white in maths, it's like: You're right, three points, three out of five, done done done. Whereas it's a lot more like, can AI capture the language? Can it pronounce everything? And things like that. So being able to understand more subtle uses for AI, instead of being like, this is the answer. Did you get.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that digital Education Action Plan - - European Education Area (https://education.ec.europa.eu/focus-topics/digital-education/actions)
- I think this matters because eager, B. and Brunton, R. (), 'Prompting Higher Education Towards AI-Augmented Teaching and Learning Practice', Journal of University Teaching and Learning Practice , Vol. , Issue , https://doi.org/./....
