# Public views on AI tools and learning

- This seems useful if in practical problem-solving and technical exercises, GenAI is leveraged in STEM education with a focus on precision and understanding AI's limitations, such as potential errors in calculations. In subjects concerned with computer programming, for example, GenAI can help students articulate and solve coding problems. However, in order to be able to do so, it is essential that students develop certain competences:
- The public discussion should recognise that indicative comment: 'I think the main thing I would change - is there another app that can be used apart from Photomath? Because, you know, you are basing all of this on a really not great app. So if there was a better app, I think it would have been a lot easier to engage with it, and to see the benefits of it.'
- The public discussion should recognise that it was just the fact that, the discussion between the facilitators and the other teachers. Other people's experiences-ways, maybe-that they were using apps that I hadn't considered. Now I was hearing lots from the languages as well, which wasn't so relevant to me. But at the same time I found it interesting, and I suppose I was hoping for a similar experience with the maths one.
- I am cautious because artificial Intelligence (AI) has grown to be a focal point of technological evolution, implicating various sectors including healthcare, education, and manufacturing. Amidst its promise lies a complex web of emotional, ethical, and societal intricacies, making public sentiment a critical factor in shaping AI policy and strategies. This research explores the duality of hope and fear within the public discourse on AI,.
- My concern is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who completed the following parts of the AIT professional learning pathway
- Parents and teachers need to know that understanding and using artificia urgent. Since the first version of AI by teachers and learners follo created new opportunities and g perspective, ...
- I am cautious because - productivity; - personalised learning; - vulnerable groups; - flexible youth services.
- My concern is that ruochen Li, senior project manager at OECD, noted that 'infrastructure, technological restrictions such as firewalls, social attitudes towards the use of technology in schools and policies that might encourage or discourage teachers from using AI' could explain the disparities across the countries.
- The public discussion should recognise that fügener, A., Grahl, J., Gupta, A. and Ketter, W. (), 'Cognitive Challenges in Human-Artificial Intelligence Collaboration: Investigating the Path Toward Productive Delegation', Information Systems Research , Vol. , Issue , pp. -, https://doi.org/./isre...
- For me, the important point is that document: S.docx Tags: Online meetings - exchange info; Benefit of multiple subjects in AIT
- I am cautious because in education, pertinent although perhaps not immediately obvious ethical questions include the purpose and aims of education, what constitutes useful knowledge, the choice of pedagogy, the impact on human development, teacher and student agency, the lack of robust evidence for effectiveness or safety, and what it means to assess. All of these issues are relevant to the use of AI in education (in addition to the.
- This seems useful if participants saw in GenAI the potential to make language learning more inclusive by providing personalised learning experiences, tailored to individual students' needs and abilities. For example, they reported the use of GenAI to create interactive language lessons, allowing students to practice their language skills in a more engaging and immersive way. Moreover, GenAI can help to create a more inclusive and.
- My concern is that indicative comment: 'And then the last day, one of the activities we did was a walking debate, and that was, it was, great again to have the point of view of everybody else, and to see why people agreed with certain statements. We kind of … sometimes you're stuck in your own opinions, and then somebody else kind of explains their opinion about it, and you're thinking, oh, yeah, I can see that now. I wouldn't have.
- I think this matters because chatGPT, like other disruptor technologies, went viral within a day, including in education. Work that seemed just a bit too good, too polished, too full of American spellings to be real, started to appear on teachers' desks with increasing regularity. Most worryingly, this is now happening in the case of Leaving Certificate project work.
- I think this matters because a series of focus groups were conducted in each of the selected countries, with educators in leadership roles at their schools (i.e., principals), as well as students and teachers. The latter were divided into two different groups according to their areas of specialisation, namely a) artshumanities subjects and b) science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) subjects. This division allowed for more.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the public perception of AI is a complex and evolving topic. Studies have explored public attitudes, concerns, and opinions regarding AI in various domains. Factors such as specific topics of interest, personality traits, and media framing can influence public perception. Understanding public perception is crucial for the responsible development and deployment of AI technologies.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that uNESCO (), AI and education: guidance for policy-makers , available at https:// unesdoc.unesco.org/ark://pf, accessed April .
- Parents and teachers need to know that when it comes to students' use of the technology, what we are trying to battle against is human nature. We have evolved and survived as a species by finding ways to conserve energy and to outcompete other animals using whatever means necessary. Artificial intelligence gives us the chance to do both of those things. Many students will adhere to the rules on the ethical use of AI, but many will not. Who can blame.
- This seems useful if indicative comment: 'I suppose it's Duolingo for everybody. It depends, you know … it's for any level, so you can start from the very beginning, and you can advance to advanced, you know, and it helps you … I suppose that's where the AI comes in, in that it helps, you know, find your level and helps you jump to what's suitable for you, as a student.'
- For me, the important point is that when designing AI tools for learning purposes, providers of generative AI may influence children's interactions positively; for example, guiding children in developing their writing skills rather than replacing them. Integrating AI into education could also enhance accessibility for students with disabilities by supporting diverse learning needs.
- I think this matters because the material presents two respondent profile charts: educational level completed to date and broad field of education of the current course.
