# Public discussion on responsible AI in education

- Parents and teachers need to know that the YAP want AI to be accessible to young people and not banned. They worried that banning AI would lead to unregulated markets that could be very unsafe for children.
- I am cautious because responsible AI as a balance between ethics, justice, human rights, competitiveness and innovation
- This seems useful if european Union, The European AI Alliance, available at https://digital-strategy. ec.europa.eu/en/policies/european-ai-alliance, accessed March .
- My concern is that some of the YAP's teachers were using AI in the classroom. For example, one teacher instructed students to write a response to an AI-generated speech debating AI itself, as a learning exercise. Others have been showing students how to responsibly use AI and suggesting what it is appropriate to use AI for. Some YAP members mentioned examples from China, where teachers are using AI to track students' learning, monitor.
- This seems useful if how widely are teachers using AI across Europe? Which countries are ahead? And what do teachers rely on AI for the most?
- This seems useful if as well as speaking about specific components of the AIT course, participants spoke about various aspects of the overall course structure. Many remarked that the different components complemented each other.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that - although personalised learning may not be harmful in itself, its implementation and results can still be unreliable, particularly at younger ages;
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that to become a global leader in AI, the EC also launched the AI Continent Action Plan , which identifies five key domains, including strengthening AI skills and talents. This domain focuses on a) educating and training the next generation of AI experts based in the EU; b) incentivising European AI talent to stay and to return to the EU; and c) attracting and retaining skilled AI talent from non-EU countries, including.
- For me, the important point is that the data collected for the study suggests that, shortly after the mainstreaming of GenAI tools, students in post-primary schools were already actively using GenAI systems for different purposes, often more intensively than their teachers. They were incorporating GenAI into their daily school activities, using it as a supportive tool to put skills into practice (e.g., conversing in a foreign language), receive.
- I think this matters because with heightened job loss anxieties, such as Cork and Limerick. Additionally, public education initiatives delineating the impact of AI on privacy would be particularly salient in Dublin, where data privacy concerns are paramount. The widespread optimism regarding medical and educational advancements should prompt a policy emphasis on ethical AI development within these domains.
- Students should understand that 'Access to practical support like training and infrastructure is also a critical accelerator. TALIS data confirms that in systems with higher AI use, teachers are more likely to have received professional learning on the topic,' Hertz and Bilgin told Euronews Next.
- My concern is that associate Professor, Department of Public Relations and Advertising, School of Communication Studies, University of the Punjab
- For me, the important point is that the use of AI in education also describes a profound challenge to the fundamental rights of children, as established by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (), necessitating a shift from speculative narratives of technological 'potential' toward a rigorous examination of socio-technical risks (Holmes, ).
- For me, the important point is that the work of the Advisory Board on Digital Transformation aimed to build on the outcomes of previous initiatives and create synergies with existing policies and projects. Among them are the EU Youth Strategy, the Digital Education Action Plan, the Strategic National Agency Cooperation on Digital Youth Work, the work of RAY DIGI, as well as the work of other SALTO Resource Centres, such as SALTO Inclusion and.
- I would support this when how to cite this report: Villar Onrubia, D., Cachia, R., Rietz, C., Feltrero, R., Niemi, H. et al ., Generative Artificial Intelligence in secondary education - Uses and perceptions from the perspective of early adopters across five EU Member States, Publications Office of the European Union, Luxembourg, ,
- I think this matters because the discussion compares teachers’ reported or intended use of AI tools at baseline and endline across three types of activity.
- Parents and teachers need to know that selwyn, N. (), Should robots replace teachers? AI and the future of education , Digital futures, Polity Press, Cambridge, UK ; Medford, MA, USA, LB. .S .
- I think this matters because finally, a set of common learning outcomes was established for the professional learning pathways in all countries:
- I would support this when much of the talk around AI in schools has understandably centred on students' use of it and the ways in which this might undermine the academic integrity of State exams. This is a serious issue, with many of the concerns of teachers and their unions being essentially shrugged off. Given the potential for students to use AI tools to assist with their AACs, the State Examinations Commission (SEC) has, belatedly,.
- My concern is that in the case of Finland , all teacher educators interviewed for the study spoke about the need for comprehensive training and guidance on the responsible use of GenAI, pointing that the complexity and rapid pace of technological advancements can be overwhelming for educators. Likewise, many teachers felt unprepared to incorporate GenAI tools effectively, which implies a critical need for comprehensive professional.
- Students should understand that you can view or order EU publications at op.europa.eu/en/publications. Multiple copies of free publications can be obtained by contacting Europe Direct or your local documentation centre (europeanunion.europa.eu/contact-eu/meet-us\_en).
- My concern is that encouragingly, some participants reported already using the tools being considered for use by teachers participating in the AIT project, namely, Duolingo and Photomath. Three of the language teachers asked their students to use Duolingo and a further two used Duolingo for their own work and asked their students to use it. Similarly, one of the maths teachers reported using Photomath for their own work, another asked.
- I think this matters because 'Because if we are not training or educating our young people first in the good use of GenAI , it's like giving them a gun and then telling them don't hurt them. If as teenagers they are not able to control their emotions, they are not able to control their day-to-day life: how are they going to be able to manage their emotions, their reality with tools as powerful as artificial intelligence? It's a bit of a strong.
