# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- This seems useful if luxembourg 's digital transformation in education is guided by national strategies like the Digital Decade Strategic Roadmap (Government of Luxembourg, ), aligning with the EU's digital goals. This roadmap emphasises AI and data literacy, aiming to integrate AI into teaching methods and curricula to enhance digital literacy and workforce readiness. It proposes AI-related courses in secondary, higher education, and.
- Students should understand that having identified some of the many ethical issues raised in all stages of the AIED pipeline, it is necessary to consider practical governance mechanisms (Брітченко, ) . Experience in operationalising ethics across various sectors clearly demonstrates that, without appropriate and well-designed mechanisms, ethical commitments risk remaining merely aspirational. To bridge the 'principles-to-practice' gap,.
- For me, the important point is that aI as a challenge for youth and fundamental rights - research published in recent years showcases an increasing number of situations in which AI technologies have led to social harms, especially by perpetrating historic biases, amplifying polarisation and accumulated disadvantages. Some of the causes of such harms have been connected to insufficient testing, lack of ethical or legal standards, or lack of information.
- I think this matters because yOUthDIG , a yearly pre-event to the EuroDIG is one of the most significant European initiatives fostering active participation of young people (aged -). The event does not have a specific focus on young people traditionally engaged in youth organisations or representation of youth interests. Still, it has a wider audience defined as 'newcomers to Internet Governance … those who do not have any prior experience and.
- Students should understand that methodological Considerations in the Analysis of Public Perceptions of Artificial Intelligence
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that inclusiveness of national AI processes - at the national level, AI processes are often led by ministries of economy and industry, hence the focus seems to be connected to economic growth and the business sector. The role of ministries in charge of youth or that of youth organisations does not seem to be explicitly mentioned. Mirroring international processes, national ones have the tendency to connect young people.
- I think this matters because understanding and using artificia urgent. Since the first version of AI by teachers and learners follo created new opportunities and g perspective, ...
- I think this matters because the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development has been working on AI since , with its Committee on Digital Economy Policy being the main driver and building on the results of various digital-related projects, such as Going Digital, Next Production Revolution or the Future of Education and Skills initiative which also addressed the connection with AI in Education, as proposed in the document Education.
- Parents and teachers need to know that figure . Consultative processes and structures involved in informing AI policies
- I think this matters because indicative comment: 'And the fact that it started years ago, you know, like in that MOOC when they were talking about the different stages in machine learning and the other ones which I forget the names of, but like it's that it's been around for so many years, and like, I didn't realise how long it's been around, you know, it dates back the first … the fact that the first people who were thinking about, maybe, and.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that deng, R., Benckendorff, P., & Gannaway, D. (a). Learner engagement in MOOCs: Scale development and validation. British Journal of Educational Technology , (), -. https://doi.org/./bjet.
- For me, the important point is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the provided statement about their awareness of AI ethical, security and other issues
- My concern is that on a larger societal scale, AI technologies are expected to contribute to efficiency and improved quality of health and public services systems.
- I am cautious because in response to the perceptions and uses of early adopters of GenAI in secondary education across the five EU Member States included in this study, the following considerations have been formulated to support the work of policymakers with responsibilities in this area.
- The public discussion should recognise that personality traits have also been found to be associated with attitudes toward AI. A study conducted in Germany and China investigated the associations between personality and attitudes toward AI (Sindermann et al., ). The study found that personality traits, such as openness and agreeableness, were positively associated with acceptance of AI in the Chinese sample (Sindermann et al., ). In the German sample, age,.
- I think this matters because the first thing we asked the YAP was 'What is AI?' There were lots of answers to this question.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that sMEVTS and Educational Administrations of the Autonomous Communities of Spain (), 'Spanish Framework for the Digital Competence of Teachers', https://intef.es/wp-content/ uploads///English-SFDCT\_.pdf.
- For me, the important point is that by integrating enforceable controls, educational institutions might protect the professional autonomy of teachers and the independent development of students, avoiding risks such as 'automated abdication' and 'cognitive atrophy'. Ultimately, such governance will help ensure that AIED moves beyond narrow technological dimensions to protect human rights, democracy, and social agency.
- The public discussion should recognise that we wanted to hear what young people think about Artificial Intelligence (AI), so we asked.
- The public discussion should recognise that - a. Join European and national debates related to AI technologies; whether they are connected to the future of cities, the future of work or more technical issues, youth voices are insufficiently represented. - b. Claim a space in the consultative, advisory or decision-making structures that deal with AI governance. They can be part of public institutions or of private companies that develop technologies. - c..
- For me, the important point is that at the EU level , the main document guiding the youth sector is the EU Youth Strategy -, adopted in December . While the strategy does reference AI explicitly, it recognises the impact of emerging technologies on young people. It proposes to 'explore and promote the use of innovative and alternative forms of democratic participation, e.g. digital democracy tools and facilitate access in order to support youth.
- Parents and teachers need to know that the Republic of Ireland describes a salient backdrop for this investigation. It has rapidly ascended as a European nexus for technological innovation, underpinned by favourable governmental policies and the burgeoning presence of global technology firms. In such a fertile context, AI transcends the realm of theoretical discourse to become a tangible element of public concern. Nevertheless, there exists a conspicuous.
