# Public views on AI tools and learning

- This seems useful if ces analyses convergent sur un point : lorsque la compréhension n'avance pas au même rythme que la technique, la capacité de maîtriser les usages s'amenuise. La connaissance devient alors un élément de régulation à part entière.
- I am cautious because . How likely do you consider the following statements about AI's impact on teachers' professional roles and wellbeing?
- I am cautious because the material indicates AI as both an enabler and a challenge. On one side, AI is shown as bringing potential positive impacts. On the other side, it is shown as creating potential risks.
- I think this matters because teens in AI is an initiative officially launched at the UN's AI For Good Global Summit with the mission to improve diversity and inclusion in AI. Led by national youth groups, it primarily aims to offer young people aged - early exposure to AI for social good, rooted in ethical principles. Through its different programmes (accelerators, incubators, hackathons) it supports diverse youth groups, not just those with.
- I think this matters because original quote: ' Tekoäly tuo lisää työtä opettajalle, koska se tuo yhden maailman lisää haltuun otettavaksi.'
- The public discussion should recognise that agroalimentaire et consommation (https://www.ifop.com/?tax-secteur=agroalimentaire-consommation)
- This seems useful if . Health Care Discourse: Conversational markers such as 'revolutionary,' 'innovation,' and 'breakthrough' abound, capturing a sense of unprecedented progress and expectations of transformative change in healthcare. Narratives: Hypothetical scenarios and real-life case studies often parallel each other, heralding a future where AI can mitigate diagnostic errors, accelerate drug discovery, or even pave the way for.
- The public discussion should recognise that this exploratory study examines the use and views of early adopters of generative AI (GenAI) in secondary education, exploring emerging practices and perceptions across five EU Member States. The study, based on the views of teacher educators, teachers, school leaders, students, and policymakers, highlights that GenAI offers new opportunities for teaching and learning while also posing important challenges. By.
- My concern is that some versions of the TAM also contain the concept 'attitude', whose definition and scope often varies (Njiku et al. , ). We took a particular interest in one of the sub-dimensions of attitude, namely, 'affects'. Affects regarding AI are prominent in the AI literature (Wang & Wang, ; Cave et al. , ), are of interest to the AIT partners, and can also impact the use of a technology (Février et al. , ). We therefore.
- Parents and teachers need to know that furthermore, AI has implications for public perception and attitudes. Public perceptions of AI are shaped by various factors, including media portrayals, personal experiences, and cultural influences (Brauner et al., ). The public may have concerns and fears about the impact of AI on privacy, job security, and ethical considerations (Brauner et al., ). Understanding public perceptions of AI is crucial for.
- I would support this when the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) states that children merit specific protection, as they may not be fully aware of the risks and consequences that the disclosure of personal data in data processing may involve. In the context of the rise of AI, the need for more data literacy is therefore being proposed.
- I think this matters because the impact of AI on the public is multifaceted and has implications in various domains. One of the key impacts of AI on the public is in the realm of employment. The automation of tasks previously performed by humans can lead to job displacement and changes in the labor market (Acemoglu & Restrepo, ). AI technologies, such as robotics and machine learning, have the potential to automate routine and repetitive tasks,.
- I am cautious because participants remarked positively on how the MOOC taught them information about AI, both in education and in other aspects of life.
- I think this matters because i suppose one of the things with the face-to-face sessions is that the learning intentions were not especially clear. I'm coming from quite a teaching background saying that. It was just kind of introducing us to what AI is, and how it is being used in different industries. It wasn't necessarily guided by how we use it in the classroom.
- For me, the important point is that . Statista, Growth of monthly active users of selected social media platforms worldwide from to , available at www.statista.com/statistics//social-media-platforms-growth-of-mau-worldwide/, accessed November .
- This seems useful if - ) Have you gained any personal benefits from the professional learning experience? . -Do you feel like you understand better what AI is and how it works thanks to the professional learning pathway? . -Is the concept of AI clear for you now? . -Which tools or situations do you think about when you think about AI? If not specific to the field of education What about AI for education? - ) Has your engagement in the.
- Students should understand that the first thing we asked the YAP was 'What is AI?' There were lots of answers to this question.
- I think this matters because the reporting of the findings in relation to the teachers who participated in the AIT project in Ireland is organised into two discrete sections in order to effectively capture a comprehensive understanding of teachers' knowledge, perceptions and use of AI, particularly in their classroom practice, in order to inform policy decisions relating to AI in education.
- Parents and teachers need to know that the report highlights the need for comprehensive policies and guidelines on GenAI use in education. At policy level, there is a need to promote the inclusion of GenAI into AI literacy efforts, curricular updates, teacher education, and professional development for educators. New policy measures, such as investing in infrastructure and resources, could support effective and ethical GenAI integration. Significant.
- Parents and teachers need to know that yAP members mentioned different kinds of AI that they preferred to use. The most used Chatbots were ChatGPT, Gemini AI and DeepSeek AI. The YAP called these 'fancier AI'. These Chatbots gave better, longer answers that the YAP felt they had more control over. They could change their questions so that the Chatbot gave specific answers.
- For me, the important point is that 'It can help teachers when they are trying to teach a lesson and summarise things better and make it more understandable.'
- I am cautious because one study conducted a content analysis of social media data to explore the public perception of AI in medical care (Gao et al., ). The study identified specific topics that the public is concerned about, such as technology and application, industry development, and the impact on society (Gao et al., ). The majority of the public held positive attitudes toward medical AI and believed that AI doctors could partially.
