# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- My concern is that . Larasati Z. W., Yuda T. K. and Syafa'at A. R. (), 'Digital welfare state and problem arising: an exploration and future research agenda' , International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy (), available at www.researchgate.net/publication/\_Digital\_welfare\_state\_and\_problem\_arising\_an\_ex-ploration\_and\_future\_research\_agenda, accessed April .
- Students should understand that 'AI is a robot that can learn from past conversations with people without needing to be reprogrammed.'
- This seems useful if to further interrogate the public's perception of AI, a comparable non-parametric statistical
- The public discussion should recognise that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who reported that the following technologies fall under the umbrella of AI
- I think this matters because 'If I have training and haven't had time to do homework, I might use Chat GPT instead.'
- For me, the important point is that informed consent was obtained from all survey participants. They were briefed on the purpose of the study, how their data would be used, and the voluntary nature of their participation. All data was anonymized during the analysis phase to ensure the privacy and confidentiality of the people.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that 'At its best, artificial intelligence can provide personal learning and act as a study coach.' (School director in Finland, translation)
- I am cautious because pawluczuk A. (), 'Automating Youth Work: youth workers views on AI' , Youth Partnership, available at https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents///AI\_views+of+youth+workers.pdf/aca-cffa-ce-eea?t=, accessed April . (https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents///AI_views+of+youth+workers.pdf/aca-cf-fa-ce-eea?t=)
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that hasse A. et al. (), Youth and Artificial Intelligence: Where We Stand, Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society publication, available at http://nrs.harvard.edu/ urn-:HUL.InstRepos:, accessed March .
- This seems useful if table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the following statements regarding the AIT professional learning pathway
- I would support this when - The Global Partnership on AI, including a multistakeholder expert group. - No identifiable or dedicated role for youth organisations. - No major public consultation on AI.
- The public discussion should recognise that - -l'Académie européenne des compétences en IA, destinée à offrir des programmes de formation et de reconversion ; - -l'augmentation de l'offre de licences, masters et doctorats spécialisés en IA dans l'Union ; - -des programmes de bourses et de « retour » pour retenir ou faire revenir les talents européens ; - -des actions de sensibilisation à l'IA dans les écoles, financées via les pôles européens d'innovation.
- Parents and teachers need to know that one study conducted a content analysis of social media data to explore the public perception of AI in medical care (Gao et al., ). The study identified specific topics that the public is concerned about, such as technology and application, industry development, and the impact on society (Gao et al., ). The majority of the public held positive attitudes toward medical AI and believed that AI doctors could partially.
- My concern is that the dataset from Table . paints a nuanced picture of public perceptions towards artificial intelligence (AI) among people in Limerick City Centre. Notably, fear levels are higher in this population compared to previously analysed datasets from Dublin and Cork. Occupationally, the people represent a range of jobs, most of which are commonplace roles in the public sphere. Turning to descriptive statistics, the mean.
- Parents and teachers need to know that gaining momentum: AI standards, policies and laws - the recently adopted AI policies and legal instruments, such as the UNESCO Recommendation on the Ethics of Artificial Intelligence, or the current work done by the European Union (AI Act, AI Liability Act and Digital Services Act) and the Council of Europe (Framework Convention on Artificial Intelligence and Human Rights, Democracy and the Rule of Law) allow the.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that aI is mostly perceived as a threat in the employment and artistic creation sectors
- The public discussion should recognise that indicative comment: 'So I think teachers need to be trained up on the various technologies, I think, yeah, continuous professional learning is hugely important. Generally speaking, for all teachers, I think it's something that we should probably be doing on a regular basis.'
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that in Spain , research participants recognised the potential of GenAI for the creation of personalised educational pathways. This personalization could radically transform teaching, making it more inclusive and tailored to individual differences. The policymaker interviewed for the study illustrated this potential with a concrete example:
- The public discussion should recognise that relatedly, many also remarked how participating in the course had made them understand how common/ubiquitous AI is in various aspects of their lives (both personal and professional).
- This seems useful if the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization's (UNESCO) Guidance for generative AI in education and research provides additional inspiration on how to deal with GenAI based on a human-centric approach and how to ensure an ethical, safe and meaningful use of such technologies.
- I would support this when one study conducted a content analysis of social media data to explore the public perception of AI in medical care (Gao et al., ). The study identified specific topics that the public is concerned about, such as technology and application, industry development, and the impact on society (Gao et al., ). The majority of the public held positive attitudes toward medical AI and believed that AI doctors could partially.
- I am cautious because meanwhile, the OECD's Opportunities, guidelines and guardrails for effective and equitable use of AI in education () focuses mainly on how to 'integrate' AI into education in order to leverage AI for 'personalised learning' and administrative 'efficiency'. In other words, it assumes that the integration of AI into education is ultimately effective (despite the lack of evidence to support such a view). It does.
- This seems useful if what is encouraging is that the majority of the teachers who did complete this section on the professional learning pathway stated that it had 'completely' or 'for the most part' met their expectations.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that government of Luxembourg (), 'Luxembourg's AI Strategy - Accelerating digital sovereignty ', The Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, https://gouvernement.lu/fr/publications/ rapport-etude-analyse/minist-digitalisation/-luxembourg-ai-strategy-en.html.
