# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- Students should understand that du côté de la France, la Stratégie Nationale pour l'Intelligence Artificielle (SNIA), lancée en intégrée dans le plan France , ambitionne de former massivement les Français à l'IA, avec un objectif de millions de personnes formées d'ici et la création de neuf pôles d'excellence nationaux (« IA Clusters ») . Près de , milliards d'euros sont mobilisés pour la formation aux métiers de l'IA, dont millions dédiés au.
- This seems useful if goujard C. (), Italian privacy regulator bans ChatGPT , Politico, available at www. politico.eu/article/italian-privacy-regulator-bans-chatgpt/, accessed April .
- For me, the important point is that digital Education Action Plan - - European Education Area (https://education.ec.europa.eu/focus-topics/digital-education/actions)
- I think this matters because with heightened job loss anxieties, such as Cork and Limerick. Additionally, public education initiatives delineating the impact of AI on privacy would be particularly salient in Dublin, where data privacy concerns are paramount. The widespread optimism regarding medical and educational advancements should prompt a policy emphasis on ethical AI development within these domains.
- The public discussion should recognise that employing a qualitative research approach and utilising a purposive sampling strategy, the study targeted a range of educational stakeholders who had prior experience with GenAI, aiming to capture different perspectives and experiences. By prioritising diversity and mapping the emerging landscape of GenAI integration into teaching and learning across different educational systems and institutional contexts, the.
- I am cautious because aI as an unpredictable force - with many new AI-driven tools used in youth work settings, non-formal educators feel they have limited (if any) control over data harvesting practices, many of which can have a detrimental impact on young people's beliefs, everyday choices and self-development. One example is the debate connected to certain social media platforms and how they use data. In March , the European.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that what is a concern, however, is the teachers' lack of awareness around important issues, such as security and privacy, when using AI technologies. There were mixed patterns in the responses indicating perhaps that the teachers may lack understanding and have some misconceptions relating to privacy, information security issues, and the ethical use of AI tools (see Figure ).
- Parents and teachers need to know that when looking at the five MSs studied, we found that Finland 's national curriculum had been developed more than a decade ago and, therefore, research participants stressed the need for an urgent update to include AI literacy in order to prepare students for a future increasingly influenced by AI. Likewise, as a requirement for competence development, they also highlighted the importance of ensuring equitable access.
- I am cautious because 'It's true that I think they teachers are going to have to learn to re-examine their methods and make a transformation in the way they teach. But I think it's going to be good for both the teachers and the students. The students, because they'll learn to use it and understand it, since I think it's going to be something common in daily life in just a few years. And the teachers, because I think it's inevitable that.
- Parents and teachers need to know that aI was also seen as an opportunity in the context of data and policy analysis for the youth sector. As indicated by several experts, using existing data-based approaches to youth project design might mean a more effective targeting of youth at risks or identification of specific issues that might require youth workers attention. Indeed, such use of open and big data might be beneficial in cross-sectoral work with.
- Parents and teachers need to know that iNTEF (), 'Guide on the Use of Artificial Intelligence in Education', Spanish National Institute of Educational Technologies and Teacher Training, https://code.intef.es/wp-content/uploads/// Guidelines-on-the-use-of-AI-in-Education-INTEF\_.pdf.
- The public discussion should recognise that members of staff also support the idea of rethinking assessment: they suggest holistic, continuous, cross-module and project-based assessment and in-person exam-based assessments. They also want to see the rethinking of curricula and the fundamentals of what is being taught.
- For me, the important point is that gaming and gamification as a tool for co-design - using online games and environments where young people already spend a considerable time is a solution to incentivising youth participation on issues that have not been traditionally open to them (for example urban planning or smart cities). The Block by Block Foundation is an organisation tapping into this potential and it has created a new methodology to engage.
- The public discussion should recognise that keywords: Artificial intelligence, Irish Public, Public Sentiments, Public Discourse, social discourses, Hope and Fear of AI, Technophobia
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that however, many participants had negative things to say about the MOOC. Many of these comments related to the idea of 'information overload'.
- For me, the important point is that the use of AI and data has the potential to become a transformative tool for education. In such a transformation, it becomes important to think about the historical objectives of education, broader social changes, emerging societal needs, and the future of education and learning. At the same time, educators must know that AI has a long history that spans many disciplines from computer science to cognitive sciences,.
- My concern is that gaming and gamification as a tool for co-design - using online games and environments where young people already spend a considerable time is a solution to incentivising youth participation on issues that have not been traditionally open to them (for example urban planning or smart cities). The Block by Block Foundation is an organisation tapping into this potential and it has created a new methodology to engage.
- I think this matters because luxembourg 's digital transformation in education is guided by national strategies like the Digital Decade Strategic Roadmap (Government of Luxembourg, ), aligning with the EU's digital goals. This roadmap emphasises AI and data literacy, aiming to integrate AI into teaching methods and curricula to enhance digital literacy and workforce readiness. It proposes AI-related courses in secondary, higher education, and.
- This seems useful if our education system from primary to secondary now emphasises the fact that education is about the holistic development of students to prepare them for life as citizens and workers in an age of rapid change.
- The public discussion should recognise that the research presented in this report was co-funded by the European Commission's Joint Research Centre and the Directorate-General for Education, Youth, Sport and Culture (Nº JRC SEV--NFP // EAC--).
