# Public sentiment on AI in education

- For me, the important point is that indicative comment: 'And the first day I found it was very interesting, but I found that there wasn't much towards the AI that we would be using in the class, and it was just, I suppose, like most of it, it was really good to know about it, but I'd rather if there was a lot more, maybe like, could be a half an hour or an hour on what we would actually be doing in our classrooms.'
- The public discussion should recognise that oECD (), 'Empowering learners for the age of AI: An AI literacy framework for primary and secondary education (Review draft)', OECD, Paris, https://ailiteracyframework.org.
- For me, the important point is that in addition, some of the teachers spoke at length about Microsoft Teams and were very positive about the ability it gives them to monitor student progress through the analytics function, and how they used the software to provide individualised work to students.
- For me, the important point is that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed with the provided statement about their awareness of AI ethical, security and other issues
- For me, the important point is that in addition, almost all of them reported being 'satisfied' or 'very satisfied' with the different elements of the AIT professional learning pathway (i.e., the MOOC, the open textbook, the online webinars and the face-to-face sessions, which the teachers referred to as 'learning days', as this was the term used by the Professional Development Services for Teachers who organised these face-to-face events). During the.
- I am cautious because participants were selected, from each city, representing a diverse cross-section in terms of age, gender, educational background, and employment type.
- Parents and teachers need to know that additionally, UNESCO has also advanced work on AI, mostly in connection to education, publishing in AI and education: guidance for policy-makers and in Guidance for generative AI in education and research , which includes recommendations for developing AI competences, such as GenAI-related skills for learners.
- I think this matters because - ) Tell me a bit about your professional experience. . -What do you like and dislike about your job? - ) Tell me a bit about the class participating in the experiment. . -In terms of academic level, is your class rather homogeneous or heterogeneous? . -Do they have special digital equipment to help them meet their needs?
- I think this matters because genAI is increasingly integrated into human cognitive processes, redefining traditional relationships with writing, language, and learning (Fügener et al., ). This raises important questions about the content students need to learn as part of the formal and informal curriculum of secondary education, the activities and experiences that can aid in the acquisition of knowledge, skills, and attitudes, and the roles.
- Students should understand that indicative comment: 'I suppose it's Duolingo for everybody. It depends, you know … it's for any level, so you can start from the very beginning, and you can advance to advanced, you know, and it helps you … I suppose that's where the AI comes in, in that it helps, you know, find your level and helps you jump to what's suitable for you, as a student.'
- My concern is that the challenge of the time taken to review work and provide constructive feedback to students was a workload issue repeatedly raised, especially by humanities teachers. The following words by a history teacher illustrate how GenAI may redefine the process of assessing students' work and providing feedback effectively:
- I would support this when fieldwork was preceded by desk research and various team meetings devoted to charting the AIED policy landscape for each of the MS included in the study and ensuring a consolidated and common approach and data collection protocol across all settings.
- Students should understand that ada Lovelace Institute. (). The data divide, available at: https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/report/the-data-divide/
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that - -Teaching and educators : How GenAI could redefine the teaching profession, including the opportunities, challenges and skills required for teachers. - -Learning and students : Impact of GenAI on student learning, particularly on cognitive development, social interaction and collaboration.
- My concern is that while the formal structures shaping AI policies do not include a prominent role for youth stakeholders, other Council of Europe departments have taken an active role in bridging the voice of the sector. Both the Youth and the Education departments have engaged AI expert groups in developing an understanding of the topic, delivering trainings and creating resources for the youth and education sectors.
- I am cautious because the YAP want to see young people included as part of this work, as well as parents, experts, schools and AI companies.
- Students should understand that in the open responses (six teachers out of responded) about the potential consequences of AI in education, some other concerns were raised, including less connection with the real world (two responses) or that some skills would no longer be learnt or taught (one response) . Others were concerned about data protection issues 'and what is being done with the information' particularly the 'ownership of any student data.
- For me, the important point is that almost none of these AI literacy frameworks mentioned issues such as the impact of AI on democracy, governance, and the rule of law (e.g. AI in elections, concentration of power, digital sovereignty, global governance), on social agency and critical thinking (e.g. algorithmic nudging, filter bubbles, cognitive dependency, creative erosion, social isolation, cultural homogenisation), on economic inequalities and.
- I would support this when participants saw in GenAI the potential to make language learning more inclusive by providing personalised learning experiences, tailored to individual students' needs and abilities. For example, they reported the use of GenAI to create interactive language lessons, allowing students to practice their language skills in a more engaging and immersive way. Moreover, GenAI can help to create a more inclusive and.
- Parents and teachers need to know that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed that AI tools can help teachers with the following activities
- Students should understand that overall, teachers reported high levels of confidence about selecting and consistently using appropriate digital technologies in effective ways for teaching purposes in their classrooms (see Table ).
- I am cautious because stefan V. (), 'Artificial Intelligence and its Impact on Young People' , Report of the seminar held in Strasbourg, - December , Youth Department of the Council of Europe, available at https://rm.coe.int/ai-report-bil-final/fa, accessed March .
