# Public views on AI tools and learning

- Parents and teachers need to know that european Commission, AI HLEG - steering group of the European AI Alliance, available at https://ec.europa.eu/futurium/en/european-ai-alliance/ai-hleg-steeringgroup-european-ai-alliance.html, accessed March .
- This seems useful if eU-Council of Europe Youth Partnership (), Symposium 'Connecting the dots: Young People, Social Inclusion and Digitalisation' , available at https://pjp-eu.coe. int/en/web/youth-partnership/symposium-, accessed March .
- Students should understand that two focus groups per MS were organised with secondary education teachers as participants. One bringing together Humanities teachers and the other one STEM teachers. Languages and arts teachers were recruited to discuss the implications of GenAI for teaching in the Humanities, whereas mainly maths and informatics teachers were selected to participated in STEM focus groups.
- For me, the important point is that both groups are uncertain about GenAI's impact on future job opportunities, with learners more divided in their expectations and staff leaning toward a neutral or uncertain outlook.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that freedom House (), Report 'Freedom of the Net : The Repressive Power of Artificial Intelligence' , available at https://freedomhouse.org/report/freedomnet//repressive-power-artificial-intelligence, accessed November .
- I would support this when f or others AI has brought about a sense of unease related to 'not knowing what might come next. In line with some of the dystopian visions shared by formal educators (Houser, ) and some youth workers (Pawluczuk, ), many participants implied that AI might in fact take over areas of their professions in the years to come. As one study participant put it, the increasing use of AI might lead to 'dehumanisation of youth.
- I think this matters because european Union Agency for Fundamental Rights. (). Bias in Algorithms - Artificial Intelligence and Discrimination. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, available at: https://fra.europa.eu/sites/default/files/fra\_uploads/fra--bias-in-algorithms\_en.pdf
- I would support this when the analytical scrutiny yielded several key insights. First, both optimism and fear registered moderate mean scores, at . and . respectively. Influential demographic variables such as age, educational attainment, and employment sectors emerged as notable moderators of these scores. Intriguingly, gender did not evince statistical significance as a modulating factor.
- This seems useful if - AI and youth activism. - AI competences and critical digital literacy. - Growing momentum around AI standards, policies, and laws. - Growing momentum around youth policies and programmes. - Cooperation with local and national authorities. - Documenting the impact of AI technologies.
- For me, the important point is that the dematerialization of the relationship with the administration for access to social rights is also leading to a reconfiguration of social work. Some social workers see dematerialization as a source of problems not only for their beneficiaries, but also for themselves , by causing both a de-skilling of their social mediation missions and an additional workload. In this respect, the unease expressed by social.
- I think this matters because the growing pervasiveness of GenAI is redefining what it means to be digitally competent, as it carries profound implications for study, work and everyday life. Moreover, like other previous information and communication technologies (e.g., pen, paper, books, archives, typewriter), GenAI is likely to eventually become integrated into human cognitive processes by transforming the act of writing and the way we think.
- My concern is that they outlined individualisation as a key benefit, how the design of the software (specifically, its resemblance to a game) increased student engagement, and the convenience of the software for the students (e.g., how students can log on for a short amount of time anywhere they are able to use their phone and complete a short language lesson).
- I would support this when . Being able to express one's understanding and attitude towards AI and discuss it. . Being able to understand the basic principles of AI systems. . Being aware of AI educational applications and key considerations when identifying, assessing and selecting an AI for teaching, learning and assessment. . Being aware of legal considerations when using AI in educational settings. . Being aware of ethical considerations.
- The public discussion should recognise that the SEC's attempt to impose guardrails on the use of AI is necessary, but the rules as outlined are too vague, providing only a few examples of acceptable and unacceptable use. More importantly, however, they are divorced from any kind of reality.
- I am cautious because nevertheless, while many teachers appreciated the benefits in terms of potential for time saving, some remained cautious, expressing concerns about the accuracy and reliability of AI-generated content, which always requires careful verification and therefore the allocation of extra time for that process. At the same time, students' access to GenAI systems might also create new workload demands for teachers, mainly.
- The public discussion should recognise that an AI system is a machine-based system that, for explicit or implicit objectives, infers, from the input it receives, how to generate outputs such as predictions, content, recommendations or decisions that may influence physical or virtual environments. Different AI systems vary in their levels of autonomy and adaptiveness after deployment.
- My concern is that - creative uses - creating content that would otherwise require specialised skills, for example generating a press release based on a short paragraph; appealing social media content; a communication strategy for an organisation; developing a new training curriculum or the concept of a new project; - productive uses - summarising reports/presentations, transforming a document into a PowerPoint presentation,.
- I am cautious because informed consent was obtained from all survey participants. They were briefed on the purpose of the study, how their data would be used, and the voluntary nature of their participation. All data was anonymized during the analysis phase to ensure the privacy and confidentiality of the respondents.
- I would support this when this indicates how the same technology needs a dual perspective. The growing use of tools such as ChatGPT in such a short time has raised additional questions on the use of AI technologies on a large scale and their impact on society and individuals using them. While developing AI technologies can bring multiple benefits, many stakeholders have already called for more attention as to how to develop and deploy them.
- The public discussion should recognise that the most common negative remark about Photomath is that it is only useful for specific topics within maths. Participants felt it was useful for algebra, but less so for topics like statistics and probability.
