# Public sentiment on privacy, assessment and AI

- I am cautious because uN, Digital Cooperation, available at https://digitalcooperation.org/, accessed March .
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that while many see the newly introduced AACs at senior cycle as an attempt to reduce exam pressure (they won't), they are part of a pedagogic move away from content and towards skills. In the process, how we assess students has had to change from terminal exams, based on how much information you can cram into your head, to project-based work that is supposed to test your problem-solving, critical thinking, etc.
- For me, the important point is that the data suggested that, despite varying levels of readiness for digital education adoption, there was still a long way ahead for digital competences relevant to GenAI, and more generally AI literacy, to be embedded into the formal curriculum at a scale (i.e., for all students).
- This seems useful if young people described how some AI could become quite addictive and impact children's ability to socialise, e.g., CharacterAI.
- I would support this when the analysis of collected data involved straightforward statistical methods in its quantitative and qualitative approaches. Descriptive statistics like mean and mode were used to summarize responses to the questions about optimism and fear. The quantitative analysis also involved testing correlations between demographic factors such as age, gender, and education against levels of optimism and fear. Statistical tests.
- I am cautious because genAI can be seen as an enabler. Whether used as a stand-alone tool or as a tool integrated into other platforms or products, its benefits for the youth sector could include:
- I think this matters because a study, which did a systematic review and meta-analysis of studies published up to September , indicated a primarily negative association between mental health and digital media use in adolescents during Covid-. However, according to the study, not all types of digital media use had adverse consequences on adolescents' mental health. One-to-one communication, self-disclosure in the context of mutual online.
- I would support this when to further interrogate the public's perception of AI, a comparable non-parametric statistical
- Students should understand that miao, F., Holmes, W., Huang, R., & Zhang, H. (). AI and education: A guidance for policymakers . UNESCO Publishing. https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark://pf
- Students should understand that botnar Fondation (n.a.). RIGHTS Click, Children and Young People's Digital Rights, Health and Wellbeing, available at: https://www.fondationbotnar.org/project/rights-click-children-and-youngpeoples-digital-rights-health-and-well-being/
- The public discussion should recognise that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agreed that an increase in the use of AI in their school will impact the following
- I would support this when artificial Intelligence (AI) has grown to be a focal point of technological evolution, implicating various sectors including healthcare, education, and manufacturing. Amidst its promise lies a complex web of emotional, ethical, and societal intricacies, making public sentiment a critical factor in shaping AI policy and strategies. This research explores the duality of hope and fear within the public discourse on AI,.
- I would support this when however, confidence levels slightly decrease when using technologies for assigning and grading activities that include student use of these digital technologies, and for effectively monitoring their use by students. In addition, approximately one-third of teachers surveyed were aware that they were not using technologies to their full potential, as they did not agree with the statement that they understood the.
- I would support this when indicative comment: 'Yeah, I think there should definitely be a set in stone AI policy for education. So there should be ... teachers shouldn't be worrying about what they're allowed or not allowed to do, using online tools. So I think there should definitely be a framework of the process, and what they can use these tools for. I think where people get frustrated about knowing what they are, what they are allowed to.
- I would support this when new opportunities for data analysis and improved policy responses - AI is also an opportunity for data and policy analysis in the youth sector. Using existing databased approaches to youth project design might mean more effective targeting of young people at risk or identifying specific concerns. Indeed, such use of open and big data might be beneficial in cross-sectoral work with youth organisations and.
- For me, the important point is that such technologies are also known as general purpose AIs (GPAIs) as the same technology can be applied in multiple contexts and for different goals. For this publication, we will further refer to such technologies as GenAI, with their main capacity to generate new content based on short inputs - text, images, videos. ChatGPT is described as a large language model, having the potential to interact with individuals.
- Parents and teachers need to know that muhammad Irfan , Professor Liam Murray , Fahad Aldulaylan , Yahya Alqahtani , Dr.Faiza Latif
- Students should understand that despite differences, educators across disciplines have recognised the potential of GenAI in their respective contexts, without ignoring important challenges at the same time. A key theme across all subjects was the potential role of GenAI in supporting critical thinking and problem-solving skills and the shift of focus to the process of learning, rather than just the outcomes. In STEM and Arts and Humanities.
- I am cautious because in , the Digital Society Program of the French National Agency for Territorial Cohesion (ANCT), has launched a consultation for the production of a series of studies on the state of the art of the French digital society. It is within this framework that the Centre de recherche pour l'étude et l'observation des conditions de vie (CREDOC) and the Centre de recherche sur l'éducation, les apprentissages et la didactique.
- The public discussion should recognise that according to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Teaching and Learning International Survey (TALIS), teachers' use of AI significantly varies across Europe as of .
- I think this matters because the perspectives and experiences of participants in this study helped us identify the following competences as essential for the future of the teaching profession at the secondary education level:
- My concern is that . Marciano L. et al. (), Digital Media Use and Adolescents' Mental Health During the Covid- Pandemic: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis, Frontiers, available at www.frontiersin.org/articles/./fpubh../full, accessed November .
- Parents and teachers need to know that the guidance provides 'use case' examples and scenarios describing AI's potential uses. In all the use case examples, teachers use the tool and then inspect and adapt what it produces. Sentences such as 'The teacher reviews these outputs carefully, adapting them to the student's individual needs and school context before implementation' capture the assumption that while the teacher will use AI to 'support teaching.
