# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- This seems useful if council of Europe (), Artificial intelligence and education - A critical view through the lens of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, available at https://rm.coe. int/prems--gbr--ai-and-education-txt-x-web/ae, accessed November .
- I would support this when oECD (b), Recommendation of the Council on Artificial Intelligence, available at https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/instruments/OECD-LEGAL-, accessed March .
- I think this matters because as we proceed with this presentation, we shall engage more deeply with the extant literature, elucidate our research methodologies, present our salient findings, and elucidate their broader implications. We extend an invitation to accompany us on this academic journey as we traverse the intricate landscapes of hope and fear within public discourse on AI, as articulated within the specific socio-cultural context of.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the participants recruited in all Member States, except in Germany, were not restricted to any specific regional or local education system, allowing for a diverse range of perspectives and experiences to be covered. However, in the case of Germany, the research participants were recruited exclusively from the federal state of Baden-Württemberg, due to the country's complex federal structure and the significant.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that involving youth organisations in formal consultation processes - data do not indicate clearly that youth organisations contributed to past consultations on AI frameworks. Most stakeholders in these processes include national governments, the private sector, academia and think tanks. CSOs are mostly represented through organisations with specific AI expertise, consumer organisations or trade unions, while human.
- For me, the important point is that sur ce point, l'Union européenne commence à structurer une réponse plus large. Le avril , la Commission a présenté son plan d'action pour faire de l'Europe « le continent de l'IA » .
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that akgun, S., & Greenhow, C. (). Artificial intelligence in education: Addressing ethical challenges in K- settings. AI and Ethics , -.
- Parents and teachers need to know that in addition to uncertainties created by the changing labour market landscape, young people might experience new challenges in relation to employment, for example algorithmic filtering of job applications or CVs. This is already visible in the spread of AI-driven recruitment applications that offer employers the possibility to automate the selection of applicants. For example, a video interview could be used to.
- I think this matters because table . Numbers/percentages of students who have used the following tools this year with the teacher engaged in the project
- Parents and teachers need to know that stefan, V. (). Artificial Intelligence and its Impact on Young People. Seminar Report, available at: https://rm.coe.int/ai-report-bil-final/fa
- My concern is that ) Une génération familière et habituée à l'IA mais exigeante sur l'étique d'usage de tels outils
- Parents and teachers need to know that du côté de la France, la Stratégie Nationale pour l'Intelligence Artificielle (SNIA), lancée en intégrée dans le plan France , ambitionne de former massivement les Français à l'IA, avec un objectif de millions de personnes formées d'ici et la création de neuf pôles d'excellence nationaux (« IA Clusters ») . Près de , milliards d'euros sont mobilisés pour la formation aux métiers de l'IA, dont millions dédiés au.
- Parents and teachers need to know that actions prioritaires pour accompagner le développement de l'IA dans l'Union européenne
- The public discussion should recognise that most staff and learners agree that GenAI use is appropriate when clearly declared. They say it is acceptable to use GenAI without integrity being undermined if people are transparent about it. Some participants, however, raise questions of authenticity of work and say that outcomes are compromised when resources are not cited or researched properly. Some participants say the use of GenAI is not appropriate at all.
- Parents and teachers need to know that - Barocas, S., Crawford, K., Shapiro, A., & Wallach, H. (). The Problem With Bias: Allocative Versus Representational Harms in Machine Learning . SIGCIS Conference. http://meetings.sigcis.org/uploads//////program.pdf - Black, L., & Council, S. (, January ). A Calif. Teen trusted ChatGPT for drug advice. He died from an overdose. SFGATE..
- My concern is that 'At its best, artificial intelligence can provide personal learning and act as a study coach.' (School director in Finland, translation)
- Students should understand that artificial Intelligence (AI) has emerged as a seminal technology with the capacity to revolutionise
- For me, the important point is that . Saving time on pedagogical tasks (e.g. generating learning materials and activities, preparing assessment, facilitate the marking of exercises).
- Students should understand that the analysis of collected data involved straightforward statistical methods in its quantitative and qualitative approaches. Descriptive statistics like mean and mode were used to summarize responses to the questions about optimism and fear. The quantitative analysis also involved testing correlations between demographic factors such as age, gender, and education against levels of optimism and fear. Statistical tests.
- For me, the important point is that information about the European Union in all the official languages of the EU is available on the Europa website (european-union.europa.eu).
- I am cautious because siruala, L. () YOUTH WORK AND TECHLASH What are the new challenges of digitalisation for young people?, available at: https://pjpeu.coe.int/documents///Techlash+LS+--+LP.pdf/be--ffdca-dbaeb
- For me, the important point is that the department's guidelines at no point suggest that teachers use artificial intelligence to grade students' work or provide assessment feedback, but the reality is that they are, and they will. In England, the department of education has said that teachers can use artificial intelligence for 'lowstakes' grading, guidance that education secretary Bridget Phillipson said 'cut workloads' for teachers. AI trained on.
- For me, the important point is that uNESCO (), AI and education: guidance for policy-makers , UNESCO, https://doi.org/./ PCSP.
- My concern is that stefan, V. (). Artificial Intelligence and its Impact on Young People. Seminar Report, available at: https://rm.coe.int/ai-report-bil-final/fa
- This seems useful if they suggested consequences that the EU and Irish Government could put in place so that AI companies respect children's rights, including:
- Parents and teachers need to know that ces analyses convergent sur un point : lorsque la compréhension n'avance pas au même rythme que la technique, la capacité de maîtriser les usages s'amenuise. La connaissance devient alors un élément de régulation à part entière.
