# Public views on AI literacy and digital education

- Students should understand that artificial intelligence is a technology that simulates human intelligence in machines. It has different kinds, including narrow AI and general AI. AI is important due to its ability to automate tasks, improve efficiency, and enhance decision-making processes. Its impact in Europe is significant, with investments in research and development and initiatives to promote its adoption. However, the adoption of AI also.
- Students should understand that table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who have used the following AI tools for teaching and learning this school year
- I think this matters because phD Scholar, School of Linguistics, University of Limerick, Ireland.Email: Fahad.Aldulaylan@ul.ie
- This seems useful if les jeunes Français face à l'IA générative : usages, perceptions et appétence pour les formations dédiées
- I think this matters because the paper offers some early insights into a topic and educational practice that has been largely underresearched - and continues to undergo a rapid transformation. Therefore, it is important to note that the findings of this study provide a glimpse into the multilayered debate about what AI is and how it is perceived in the youth sector. The analysis here is based on a small sample of participants and should.
- The public discussion should recognise that cover and layout: Documents and Publications Production Department (SPDP), Council of Europe
- I would support this when 'AI is a robot that can learn from past conversations with people without needing to be reprogrammed.'
- My concern is that this document is a publication by the Joint Research Centre (JRC), the European Commission's science and knowledge service. It aims to provide evidence-based scientific support to the European policymaking process. The contents of this publication do not necessarily reflect the position or opinion of the European Commission. Neither the European Commission nor any person acting on behalf of the Commission is.
- For me, the important point is that what needs to be done to enable staff to keep pace with changes you expect in education and in the workforce because of GenAI?
- My concern is that deng, R., Benckendorff, P., & Gannaway, D. (b). Linking learner factors, teaching context, and engagement patterns with MOOC learning outcomes. Journal of Computer Assisted Learning , (), -. https://doi.org/./jcal.
- Students should understand that in summary, it is generally accepted by researchers, educators and policymakers that AIED raises far-reaching questions with important ethical implications for students, educators, parents, policymakers, and other stakeholders. The implications of the generic ethical issues mentioned earlier for AI (such as bias and fairness) are both relevant for education and even more acute, given that many users are legal minors.
- I think this matters because table . Numbers/percentages of teachers who agree with the following statements regarding the use of AI in their work
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that marciano L. et al. (), Digital Media Use and Adolescents' Mental Health During the Covid- Pandemic: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis, Frontiers, available at www.frontiersin.org/articles/./fpubh../full, accessed November .
- The public discussion should recognise that campaigns and movements around copyright - during the - public debates on the EU Copyright Directive, a strong youth reaction was felt, especially around two proposed articles: Article , also named the 'meme ban' or the #UploadFilter, being harshly criticised for the obligation that it might have created for online platforms to remove copyrighted content, thus considered to be possibly harming for many digital.
- The public discussion should recognise that young people - and therefore also youth workers - need to know how to continue to critically examine, learn, and find one's way in an increasingly AI -driven way to respond to the ever-changing socioeconomic dynamics. The overall AI adoption market is expected to be worth $ billion by and most jobs of the future will require young people to have digital competences (World Economic Forum, ). As digital transformation.
- Students should understand that - Tang, L., & Sheng Su, Y. (). Ethical Implications and Principles of Using Artificial Intelligence Models in the Classroom: A Systematic Literature Review. International Journal of Interactive Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence , (), -. https://doi.org/./ijimai... - Tuomi, I. (). The Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Learning, Teaching, and Education European Union: JRC. - .
- I would support this when the European Commission has put forward the Ethical guidelines on the use of artificial intelligence (AI) and data in teaching and learning for educators to mitigate potential problems, such as those listed above.
- My concern is that to be honest, I liked the way that it was set up. After the first day I felt I was a bit, I suppose, unsure about what exactly was being asked of us, you know. There was lots of, you know, information from speakers, etc. And it was all very interesting information, but honestly, I left just not entirely knowing what I was meant to do when I got back to school. Document: S.docx Tags: Learning day - unclear learning.
- Students should understand that there is limited understanding of what AI means in theoretical and practical terms in the European youth sector. This study revealed that there is a need for a more unified and accessible definition of AI that is specifically contextualised for the youth sector's needs. Such a definition could allow for a more strategic examination of how different aspects of Artificial Intelligence have influenced the sector, if.
- Parents and teachers need to know that teachers expressed how it was important for schools to have an organised and coordinated approach to the use of AI tools. Specifically, they recommended conducting cost-benefit analyses of AI tools, having a dedicated AI policy, and encouraging staff professional learning about such tools.
- I would support this when committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe (), Resolution CM/Res() on the Council of Europe youth sector strategy , available at https://rm.coe. int/, accessed March .
- Parents and teachers need to know that the evidence is relevant because it shows that responsible AI is shaped by both rights-based and innovation-oriented concerns. In AI-in-education governance, this supports the need to balance ethical safeguards, justice, and human rights with innovation and competitiveness.
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that basarab, T. & O'Donovan, J. (), Youth Work Essentials. Council of Europe, available at https://pjp-eu.coe.int/documents///-Youth-Work-EssentialsWEB.pdf/abec-c-d-dab-cbebb
- I am cautious because the AIT intervention revolved around two common online resources translated for all five participating countries. The first resource was the AIT MOOC under the coordination of the Inria. A textbook entitled AI for Teachers: An Open Textbook was also developed under the coordination of the Université de Nantes as a resource for more experienced users and trainers.
