# Public discussion on responsible AI in education

- A sensible approach would start from the idea that some critical feedback about the learning days related to the lack of clear learning intentions for the pathway, and how participants left the first day without a clear understanding of how they were supposed to implement AI in the classroom.
- Parents and teachers need to know that design for learning is a key element of the teaching profession, understood as the planning of experiences and situations aimed at helping students achieve the intended learning outcomes of subjects and whole programmes, ultimately supporting the development of competences and attributes as defined by the curriculum. The early adopters of GenAI in secondary education involved in this study started to experiment with.
- For me, the important point is that table . below displays data extracted from a survey conducted in Dublin city centre. The survey queried participants with a series of questions aimed at gauging public perceptions concerning Artificial Intelligence (AI). The dataset is structured along seven dimensions:
- For me, the important point is that 'When you're against AI, it's over exaggerated in a lot of ways how bad it can get, like some people still believe AI could turn against humans, but that's not what's going to happen at all, it's more likely just going to provide better options for goals but their goals will just be misaligned with ours, so it's about aligning our goals to create more peace.'
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the guidance provides 'use case' examples and scenarios describing AI's potential uses. In all the use case examples, teachers use the tool and then inspect and adapt what it produces. Sentences such as 'The teacher reviews these outputs carefully, adapting them to the student's individual needs and school context before implementation' capture the assumption that while the teacher will use AI to 'support teaching.
- For me, the important point is that research into the ethical dimension of AI in education (AIED) has generally lagged behind that of other AI domains. Probably the first paper to examine the ethics of AIED in any depth appeared just a few years ago, Ethics of AI in Education: Towards a Community-Wide Framework (Holmes et al., ). Subsequently, however, there have been many related publications (e.g., Fu & Weng, ; Tang & Sheng Su, ; Williamson et al.,.
- Parents and teachers need to know that indicative comment: 'Well, for me in class, it doesn't really help. I can see … whether they have done the assignments on it, but, like I can't see exactly what they have to do in terms of topic or questions, and all this … I could have a student working on food, and then another student working on clothes. But I don't know - I can't see it. So that's the limit of Duolingo. As a teacher I can see that they have been.
- I am cautious because what is particularly interesting is how engaged these teachers were with the AIT learning pathway. They all stated they enjoyed taking part and were inspired to expand their knowledge of AI. This is evident by their behaviour as they set aside regular time to work on the AIT professional learning elements, contributed regularly to the course discussions, and shared learning materials with others who took part in the.
- Students should understand that indicative comment: 'Well, for me in class, it doesn't really help. I can see … whether they have done the assignments on it, but, like I can't see exactly what they have to do in terms of topic or questions, and all this … I could have a student working on food, and then another student working on clothes. But I don't know - I can't see it. So that's the limit of Duolingo. As a teacher I can see that they have been.
- The public discussion should recognise that . What are the prevalent themes of hope and fear towards AI in the public discourse in Dublin, Cork, and Limerick, and how do they contribute to the dominant narratives within the Republic of Ireland? . How do these localized narratives from Dublin, Cork, and Limerick inform the broader public's perception and acceptance of AI across Ireland? . How do demographic variables such as age, gender, education, and.
- My concern is that . How likely do you consider the following statements about AI's impact on teachers' professional roles and wellbeing?
- I think this matters because the rise of digital technologies has brought about a major transformation of activities and processes in our societies over the last twenty years. The persistence of socionumeric inequalities despite the massive spread of digital infrastructures and equipment, and the presence of highly heterogeneous digital practices within the French population, have been strongly highlighted by the progressive digitization of all.
- For me, the important point is that the methodology for this study aimed to understand the perceptions of Artificial Intelligence (AI) among the public in three major city centers in the Republic of Ireland -Dublin, Cork, and Limerick. The research primarily focused on exploring sentiments of fear and hope. The study used a quantitative approach for simplicity and direct interpretation of public sentiment with Qualitative Analysis based on the.
- I would support this when an overview of this is outlined in Figure and a summary of each of the main points raised by the teachers is outlined below.
- For me, the important point is that out of teachers who used AI, on average in the European Union (EU-), almost twothirds ( per cent) say that they use it to efficiently learn about and summarise a topic, and per cent use AI to generate lesson plans or activities. The two highest percentages indicate that AI is used mainly for teachers' own preparation.
- This seems useful if the potential to enhance student engagement in education through GenAI was identified in the study as one of the most promising areas of impact. For example, by using this technology to personalise resources and experiences, teachers can ensure they are as relevant and meaningful as possible to individual students and classes based on their interests, capacities, and other contextual factors.
- Parents and teachers need to know that looking at the day-to-day practices of teachers, the study illustrates how GenAI has the potential to shape key aspects of the teaching profession and affect their workload. For instance, teachers are experimenting with using GenAI for lesson planning and creating educational resources, as well as helping alleviate the burden of tasks ancillary to teaching (e.g., administrative work, communication with families)..
- Parents and teachers need to know that relatedly, some participants also spoke about how the information they learnt about AI in the learning day (particularly the first day) was not relevant to their classroom practice.
- Students should understand that 'surveillance ads, algorithms that shape what we see or not in the internet and deceptive design practicesreduce our young peoples' ability to organi se among young people for the causes we care about, such as climate change, social justice, access to fair remuneration and employment, democratic engagement, etc. Big Tech companies should not have a free playground to decide young people's lives and futu re' (EDRi, ).
