# Public sentiment on AI in education

- Parents and teachers need to know that africanews Source: OECD (), Results from TALIS : The State of Teaching The countries that used AI in schools the least were in Bulgaria (), Hungary (), the French region of Belgium (), Turkey (), Italy (), Finland (), Montenegro (), and Slovakia ().
- For me, the important point is that many YAP members talked about different examples of AI, like Chat GPT, Image Generators, DeepSeek AI and OpenAI. They also mentioned Chatbots on WhatsApp and Snapchat, as well as Generative AI on Google's search engine. When we asked the YAP if they thought algorithms counted as AI, they said they hadn't really thought about it, but agreed that algorithms could be considered Artificial Intelligence.
- For me, the important point is that genAI may also prove to be helpful as a tool for self-assessment, enabling students to receive timely feedback that allows them to refine their work before submission. For example, this was the opinion of one of the STEM teachers in Ireland, who commented on how students can use GenAI to self-assess their own work and this can result in their work being of a much higher standard when the teacher evaluates it:
- For me, the important point is that finnish National Agency for Education (), Digital youth work strategic cooperation between national agencies of Erasmus+ Youth and the European Solidarity Corps, available at www.oph.fi/en/education-development-and-internationalisation/long-term-cooperation-projects/digital-youth-work, accessed April .
- My concern is that finally, participants were also positive about the hybrid approach to the programme.
- Parents and teachers need to know that the reporting of the findings in relation to the teachers who participated in the AIT project in Ireland is organised into two discrete sections in order to effectively capture a comprehensive understanding of teachers' knowledge, perceptions and use of AI, particularly in their classroom practice, in order to inform policy decisions relating to AI in education.
- For me, the important point is that in most cases, however, the YAP are using AI on their own, not because teachers are asking them to or teaching them about it. They were aware that they have to be careful when doing so, like giving specific prompts to chatbots to get the information you need (e.g., write from the point of view of a Junior Cert student). Even though AI is helpful for essay writing, they said it can be 'obvious when AI is used',.
- For me, the important point is that table . Numbers/percentages of students who agreed with the following statements regarding AI
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that the evaluation of the AIT intervention is both quantitative and qualitative. The main data was collected through questionnaires and interviews. Ethical approval for the Irish team to engage in this research was granted by Dublin City University's research committee (reference letter - DCUREC//).
- This seems useful if tugend, A. (). How Robots Can Assist Students With Disabilities, available at: https://www.nytimes.com////technology/ai-robots-students-disabilities.html
- This seems useful if against a backdrop of digitization of society and persistent digital inequalities, if the job of providing support for digital uses with a view to digital and social inclusion is of prime importance, the question of support and training for digital mediation players themselves is particularly central . As Denouël and Granjon () point out, "Digital mediators today need, in their initial and "lifelong" training, to.
- My concern is that knowing what AI is and how to address it in one's work was described as important skills in youth work. As one study participant argued, 'the new AI trends should not be disregarded and blocked, but rather explored and addressed responsibly because we never know what it could bring us in the end'. There is a need for additional education or training resources for youth workers and youth organisations. In the future,.
- I am cautious because the dataset from Table . paints a nuanced picture of public perceptions towards artificial intelligence (AI) among participants in Limerick City Centre. Notably, fear levels are higher in this population compared to previously analysed datasets from Dublin and Cork. Occupationally, the participants represent a range of jobs, most of which are commonplace roles in the public sphere. Turning to descriptive statistics,.
- The public discussion should recognise that indicative comment: 'But like I feel, maybe if I needed to practice the difference between passe compose and imparfait , I wasn't kind of getting a feel that I could send them into a section to work on that. So probably my own traditional way of looking at some of these things - it isn't going to do that necessarily. I don't know. Maybe I missed a step, or there was something I wasn't getting. But yeah, if you.
- This seems useful if eU-Council of Europe Youth Partnership (), Symposium 'Navigating Transitions: adapting policy to young people's changing realities' , available at https:// pjp-eu.coe.int/en/web/youth-partnership/symposium-, accessed March .
- My concern is that this section summarises the responses of the nine teachers who had access to the AIT professional learning pathway (intervention group) and participated both in the baseline and endline AIT questionnaires. Focusing on this particular group enables us to examine what, if any, changes were observed in these teachers' knowledge of AI, their use of AI technologies, and their perceptions of AI as a result of.
- I think this matters because indicative comment: 'So I think teachers need to be trained up on the various technologies, I think, yeah, continuous professional learning is hugely important. Generally speaking, for all teachers, I think it's something that we should probably be doing on a regular basis.'
- A sensible approach would start from the idea that concerning government regulation of AI; however, the term 'regulation' is employed without explicit definition, leaving it open to interpretation and thereby introducing ambiguity that might benefit from clarification through exploratory factor analysis. Finally, the General Perception section takes advantage of the Likert scale's capability to quantitatively assess sentiments generally considered qualitative,.
- The public discussion should recognise that in addition, a considerably larger proportion of teachers were able to identify that the provided range of technologies fall under the umbrella of AI.
- This seems useful if tricot, A. (). Report Quelles fonctions pédagogiques bénéficient des apports du numérique. Numérique et apprentissages scolaires. https://ecogestion-caen.second-degre.acnormandie.fr/IMG/pdf/\_cnesco\_tricot\_numerique\_fonctions\_pedagogiques-.pdf
- For me, the important point is that united Kingdom Government (), AI Sector Deal, available at www.gov.uk/government/publications/artificial-intelligence-sector-deal/ai-sector-deal, accessed March .
