## Generative artificial intelligence in schools - information for students and parents

## What is generative artificial intelligence?

Generative artificial intelligence (AI) enables computers and systems to create new content such as text, images, videos, software code and music, that mimics what humans can produce.

Generative AI learns from large amounts of data to recognise patterns and produce the best response to a given human prompt. When a prompt is provided, the generative AI tool generates an output, such as a sentence, picture or model aligned to the prompt.

## Generative AI policy

The Department of Education and Training (department) allows the use of generative AI in schools guided by Northern Territory Government and department policy.

Schools may develop their own processes and expectations to help the school community meet these policy expectations. Students should adhere to school processes and guidance when using generative AI tools.

## Benefits and limitations of generative AI

Generative AI tools benefit both teachers and students by supporting thinking and have the potential to have a positive impact on learning.

However, generative AI tools can also:

- show bias and use stereotypes
- provide incorrect information, such as leaving out important details or creating false information
- provide information that is not always original, instead providing the most likely response.

## How can generative AI be used in schools or at home?

The application of generative AI can differ across year levels. Some common uses are shown below.

| To support teaching and learning                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | To support student learning                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| • generate ideas for lesson planning • tailor a task to support engagement • assist with administrative tasks • design formative assessment activities • analyse data that is not personal or sensitive • re-word information so students at different stages of learning can understand. | • test knowledge or prepare practice questions • assist with idea generation and writing • explain information in different ways to make it easier to understand • ask for specific feedback on work • answer simple questions on a topic. |


## Key considerations for students

The following are some things to consider when using generative AI tools:

- Age restrictions: check the age restrictions of AI tools before deciding to use the AI tool.
- Privacy: do not share personal, sensitive or identifiable information on these tools, as the data might be stored or used in unintended ways.
- Security: use only reputable platforms and keep software up to date.
- Plagiarism and copyright: follow school processes and advice on using generative AI content including applying copyright rules and acknowledging the use of content generated by AI.
- Reliability: AI-generated content can be inaccurate or biased. Always review all generated content for accuracy and appropriateness.
- Misuse: consequences may apply for misuse, such as creating harmful or inappropriate content. It is important to use generative AI tools responsibly and ethically.

## Plagiarism and assessment integrity

When students use generative AI for schoolwork, it must be appropriately acknowledged. This may include naming the generative AI tools used and listing prompts given to the tools. Students should discuss this with their teacher to find out the appropriate way to do so.

When students use content created by generative AI and submit it as their own, it is considered plagiarism, just like copying from a book or website without giving credit. At school, children learn what plagiarism is, why it is important to avoid it and how it can affect their grades.

When using generative AI to support assessment tasks, students should keep drafts or notes to show their work process. Teachers may check for plagiarism, so it is best for students to keep transcripts of generative AI prompts and responses to support their work if needed.

## Australian Framework for Generative AI in schools

Education ministers across Australia have prioritised addressing the risks and opportunities of generative AI in education. The Australian Framework for Generative AI in Schools provides national guidance for the responsible and ethical use of these technologies to benefit students, schools, and society.

## Other helpful resources

- Generative AI -policy and guideline - https://education.nt.gov.au/policies/conduct#headingNine1397861
- For students completing the NT Certificate of Education -Guidelines for using Artificial Intelligence (AI) in SACE assessments https://www.sace.sa.edu.au/teaching/assessment/assessment-and-academic-integrity/guidelinesfor-using-ai
- Common sense media -Parents' Ultimate Guide to Generative AI -https://www.commonsensemedia.org/articles/parents-ultimate-guide-to-generative-ai
- eSafety Commissioner - https://www.esafety.gov.au/